84
Declaration 4-2
LGBTQ+ and other sexual minorities are known to be at
higher risk for suicide and self-harm. In Japan, studies
(Kamano: 2023)*1
have shown that they are two to three
times more likely than the general population to experi-
ence mental health challenges. In East Asia, the legacy of
patriarchy contributes to intense social pressure to marry
and have children, resulting in very few LGBTQ+ people
coming out to those around them. LGBTQ+ individuals are
rendered invisible at home, in schools, at workplaces, and
in communities. Legal systems also exclude them, as Japan
lags behind in enacting legislation such as marriage equali-
ty and comprehensive anti-discrimination laws. In Japanese
society, there are sadly very few safe spaces where LGBTQ+
individuals can breathe freely.
Since 2014, the certified non-profit organization Nijiiro*2
Di-
versity has been conducting research on LGBTQ+ issues in
collaboration with academic researchers. In Japan, LGBTQ+
individuals are also absent from national statistics—there is
no official statistics. Surveys reveal heartrending responses
such as “I can’t tell my parents,” “I’m bullied at school,” “I
hide my identity at work,” and “I’m isolated in my commu-
nity.” As society continues to erase their existence, LGBTQ+
individuals are found to have lower educational attainment,
income, and physical and mental health*3
.
To change these circumstances, Nijiiro Diversity estab-
lished Pride Center Osaka in 2022. The center houses more
than 750 books on LGBTQ+ topics and offers community
events and counseling services. It is the first permanent
LGBTQ+ center in western Japan and has welcomed over
4,300 visitors from across the country. Some visitors have
4-2-3
Create more safe and welcoming spaces—at home, in schools, workplaces, and communi-
ties—for LGBTQ+ individuals and those around them, who are often rendered “invisible”.
difficulties in accessing menstrual products. Although the
situation has improved since the 2011 Great East Japan
Earthquake, there are still reports, such as from the 2024
Noto Earthquake, of challenges like sanitary products being
placed in conspicuous locations where it is hard to retrieve
them, or products not matching users’ needs.
We must normalize the practice of making menstrual prod-
ucts available in restrooms, just like toilet paper. Supporting
menstruation in this way not only improves well-being but
also serves as a trigger for greater awareness, discussion,
and understanding of menstruation across schools, compa-
nies, and society at large. The MeW Project will continue its
awareness-raising and outreach efforts, collaborating with
diverse actors.
The Inochi Forum values and supports such initiatives.
Together, we will work to spread the practice of knowing
about and supporting menstruation as a concrete step
toward achieving gender equality.
[Notes]
*1 UNICEF WHO monitor menstruation-related issues within
the SDGs:
https://washdata.org/monitoring/menstrual-health
*2 The University of Osaka UNESCO Chair MeW Project:
https://mew.hus.osaka-u.ac.jp/
*3 The University of Osaka Diversity and Inclusion Center – Free
Provision of Sanitary Products in Restrooms:
https://www.di.osaka-u.ac.jp/dispenser-list/
[Action Platform]
Diversity and Inclusion
[SDGs]
Inside the Pride Center Osaka and its staff
