125
Declaration 5-3
enables every Inochi to unleash its radiant light.
The second, “Ethical Capitalism”, is a management philoso-
phy where the purpose of business is good deeds, and the
profits gained are invested in further good deeds. This con-
cept resonates with traditional Japanese commercial ethics,
such as the Sanpo Yoshi (good for the seller, buyer, and
society) philosophy of the Omi merchants and Eiichi Shibu-
sawa’s principles of balancing The Analects and Abacus. It
aligns with contemporary ideas such as Markus Gabriel’s
“Ethical Capitalism” and Tomonobu Imamichi’s “Ecoethica”
(Ecological Ethics)*4
. The emerging trend of social entrepre-
neurship—businesses that integrate good deeds into their
models—is directly linked to supporting the next genera-
tion’s efforts to build a better future.
Aiming to foster a society where future generations can
unleash their Inochi and engage in the creation of a better
world, the Human Renaissance Institute—a frontier insti-
tution of OMRON—has since the 1990s pursued initiatives
aimed at realizing a decentralized networked society, the
utilization of untapped resources, enhancement of agricul-
tural values, and the extension of healthy life expectancy.
Today, we continue to co-create new approaches such as
ridesharing, remote diagnostics, and health-oriented man-
agement.
The Inochi Forum, in collaboration with the Human Renais-
sance Institute and other organizations, will contribute to
developing new value indicators that awaken the desire for
symbiosis and help open pathways toward a future where
every Inochi unleashes its radiant light.
[Notes]
*1 Global evidence on planetary limits and environmental degra-
dation:
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-023-39810-w
*2 OMRON Corporation, SINIC Theory:
https://www.omron.com/jp/ja/about/corporate/vision/sinic/
theory.html
*3 Explanation of regenerative economy (video):
https://youtu.be/oZ-KyYnQhPw?feature=shared
*4 Tomonobu Imamichi, Ecoethica:
https://opac.ll.chiba-u.jp/da/curator/900040690/42imamichi.
pdf
[Action Platform]
Economy, Employment and Poverty
[SDGs]
The prevalent reliance on quantitative metrics, such as
Gross Domestic Product (GDP), for assessing progress to-
wards Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and national
level development remains problematic. This approach
significantly limits the scope of understanding and fostering
human and societal flourishing. True development encom-
passes far more than economic growth and material wealth;
it includes the non-material dimensions of life such as
emotional well-being, cultural and linguistic richness, and
psychological as well as religious, spiritual and emotional
fulfillment. These aspects, often qualitative and aspiration-
al in nature, escape traditional measurement frameworks
but are crucial for a comprehensive view of progress and
well-being. Consequently, there’s a pressing need to expand
the development paradigm beyond GDP and similar indices
to include broader, more inclusive indicators that capture
the full spectrum of human experience and societal health.
To address this measurement problem and transcend the
limitations of GDP-focused metrics it is recommended to
develop and integrate new indicators that can more accu-
rately reflect the non-material aspects of development.
These indicators should aim to capture qualities such as
community cohesion, cultural and linguistic vitality, environ-
mental stewardship, and individual and collective well-being.
Additionally, it is crucial to incorporate household produc-
tion and non-market commodities into economic measures
5-3-2
Let us address the limitations of current metrics like GDP by developing Integrated Flour-
ishing Measures (IFMs) to capture non-material aspects of societal well-being, such as
emotional resilience and cultural vitality.
