34
Declaration 2-3
In recent years, Japan and many other parts of the world
have experienced an increasing frequency of natural disas-
ters, including earthquakes and torrential rains. One of the
most pressing issues during such events is the shortage of
evacuation shelters. In many areas, designated shelters alone
are insufficient to accommodate evacuees. In response to
this challenge, there has been growing attention to the role
of religious institutions as alternative evacuation shelters.
During the Great East Japan Earthquake and the Kumamoto
Earthquake, temples, shrines, and other religious facilities
served as shelters and volunteer centers. These institutions
worked in collaboration with local governments and social
welfare councils to provide essential support. Likewise,
during the Noto Peninsula Earthquake, over 35 religious
institutions functioned as shelters and welcomed numer-
ous evacuees. Because they are trusted by the local com-
munities, religious institutions can also enhance the “soft”
elements of disaster preparedness, including information
dissemination, safety confirmation, and mental health care
during emergencies.
Recognizing these possibilities, the Social Solution Initiative
(SSI) at The University of Osaka, together with the Region-
al Information Co-Creation Center (RICCC), has launched
a project titled “Construction of a Disaster Prevention /
Watching System with Community Resources and Informa-
tion Technology.” The project is led by Professor Keishin
Inaba of the Graduate School of Human Sciences.
To fully utilize religious institutions during disasters, it is
crucial to establish stronger coordination with local govern-
ments. This includes designating religious sites as official
shelters or emergency assembly points and entering into
agreements to develop evacuation plans and operational
structures in advance. Although there is a growing move-
ment toward such cooperation, as of now, only 24.0% of
local governments in Japan have established formal cooper-
ation frameworks with religious institutions—leaving signif-
icant room for expansion. Additionally, there are challenges
such as seismic resilience and location suitability of religious
facilities, which must be addressed through initiatives like
hazard map-based planning and structural reinforcement.
On the other hand, science and technology—including ICT
(Information and Communication Technology), AI, and IoT
(Internet of Things)—offer new tools for enhancing disaster
preparedness and response. Social innovation that inte-
grates local resources with technology is essential. Exam-
2-3-2
Build a resilient and inclusive society through diversity-driven innovation by bridging the
blind spots of disaster resilience—religious institutions, science and technology, and local
governments.
tial for building communities of mutual support, The Inochi
Forum will work with diverse organizations, including pri-
vate enterprises and third-sector organizations, to establish
and promote phase-free systems nationwide by 2030.
[References]
・Phase Free Association
https://phasefree.or.jp
・Sugano, Taku (2021). Disaster Response Governance: Stopping
the Chaos in Victim Support. Nakanishiya Publishing
[Action Platform]
Urban Development and Disaster Prevention
[SDGs]
Respect-Relief Map https://map.respect-relief.net/
