98
Declaration 4-4
nologies (Co-representatives: Professor Michinori
Uwasu, Graduate School of Economics, The Univer-
sity of Osaka; Mr. Siquinfu, Representative Director,
Kita no Kaze
・
Minami no Kumo), has engaged in
efforts to promote the “localization of knowledge”.
This concept is not about simply transferring knowl-
edge or introducing technologies. Rather, it is about
deeply learning from, respecting, and leveraging—
across society—the indigenous knowledge em-
bedded in regional ways of coexisting with nature,
mutual human support, and time-honored practices
in agriculture, forestry, fisheries, and crafts. These
are invaluable forms of wisdom that cannot be measured by
market efficiency alone.
Through both research and field practice, the project has
worked to visualize and share these values in collaboration
with local communities. In education, for example, field stud-
ies have taken students to rural communities, where they
engage in dialogues with residents and experience firsthand
their lives and cultures—learning together about the value of
the region. It is imperative to develop such initiatives across
national, cultural, and urban-rural divides.
Within the concept of “localization of knowledge”, two core
questions arise. The first is how we can pass down the
wisdom, techniques, and spirit of “making”—which nur-
tures and sustains Inochi—to future generations. Handmade
skills, the use of local materials, seasonal living, and coop-
erative labor are more than just means of production; they
are “technologies of Inochi”—ways for people and nature to
live in harmony. The second question concerns the resto-
ration of ties between rural and urban areas. Cities and rural
communities are not opposite: they are interdependent.
Urban life and economies are supported by rural practices.
Water, energy, food, and raw materials for industrial goods
are all gifts from nature brought forth by rural areas. For ex-
ample, Japan’s reputation for delicious cuisine is built upon
the knowledge, labor, and dialogue with nature practiced
by food producers. To eat is to sustain life—and to resonate
with the lives and work of others.
To hand down such techniques, values, and connections
to the next generation, we need systems that allow each of
us to internalize the meaning of “localization of knowledge”
and “bond Inochi” as our own concern—and to engage with
them creatively and proactively. By listening to the voices of
communities and creating opportunities for people from di-
verse backgrounds to think and act together, we can realize
a new society based on circularity and coexistence.
As part of its action plan, this project integrates the practical
wisdom of communities with academic knowledge to build
sustainable regional models centered on agriculture, forest-
ry, and craftsmanship. Specific initiatives include:
1. Establishing “demonstration fields” that utilize local re-
sources
2. Implementing and evaluating agricultural and forestry
technologies locally
3. Regularly holding co-creation workshops on “locality ×
research”
4. Creating exchange and residency programs for children,
youth, and researchers within and beyond communities
These efforts go beyond regional revitalization; they foster
a mutually beneficial system where “local knowledge” and
“university knowledge” are leveraged in both directions to
enable autonomous development in rural areas. Research-
ers and practitioners from across Japan, China, and Mongo-
lia are collaborating to promote natural and organic farm-
ing, sustainable forest resource use, and regional industrial
innovation—offering new models for resource-circulating
sustainable communities.
The Inochi Forum collaborates with projects like this to
bridge higher education and regional society across bor-
ders of nation, region, and culture—cultivating the next
generation of community leaders by providing students and
children with opportunities to learn through practical en-
gagement in the field.
[References]
・Kita no Kaze
・
Minami no Kumo—Future Asia—
https://www.future-asia.or.jp/
・Osaka Prefecture Forest Owner’s Co-operative Association
http://www.o-forest.org/
・Natural Farming Munokai
https://munokai.com/
・UmiNe LLC.
https://umine-llc.com/
[Action Platform]
Urban Development and Disaster Prevention / Food and Agricul
ture / Resource Recycling
[SDGs]
Process of forming a “Learning and Co-Creation Community”
