138
Declaration 5-4
it again in 2022. Through the practices of each employee,
they continue to breathe life into the philosophy, grounding
it not in slogans but in vibrant real-world contexts.
Empathy mediates between individual subjectivity and the
objectivity of society and organizations. It is vital to cre-
ate shared time-space among participants and engage in
exhaustive, earnest dialogue until reaching a selfless state
where we share the feeling of “We can only express in this
way.” Through empathy, it becomes necessary to cultivate
“intellectual combat” spaces within and outside organiza-
tions where people engage in uncompromising, heated
discussions without self-censorship or compromise. This
approach liberates and concentrates each individual’s rich
potential and enables the decentralized and autonomous
practice of collective knowledge creation through all-hands-
on-deck management by all across boundaries.
New meaning cannot be generated from trade-offs that dis-
card opposites or from simple averaging and prearranged
harmony between dichotomies. To generate breakthrough
ideas that leap beyond existing frameworks, it is crucial to
approach matters through “dynamic duality”—recognizing
and seriously confronting the contradictions and tensions
between extremes, including tacit knowledge. Facing
conflict and contradiction head-on allows us to co-create
new narratives and achieve self-transformation toward the
common good.
What facilitates the organizational knowledge creation
process is “practical wisdom leadership” (Phronesis) (Fig-
ure 2). Practical wisdom, as defined by Aristotle, is prudent
judgment applied in practice. Each individual must have
the resolve to live wisely (a way of life)—making the best
judgments and taking timely actions dynamically within
real-world contexts toward the common good of the future.
The Inochi Forum will carry forward and further develop
Professor Nonaka’s Knowledge-Creation Theory, expand-
ing the arenas where individuals co-create value together
toward the common good of the future.
[References]
・The Ikujiro Nonaka Institute
https://ikujiro-nonaka.institute/
・Nonaka Laboratory, Graduate School of International Corporate
Strategy (ICS), Hitotsubashi University
https://www.ics.hub.hit-u.ac.jp/jp/faculty/profile/nonaka_ikujiro.
html
・Nonaka Institute of Knowledge
https://nonaka-ik.org/
・Eisai Co., Ltd. Knowledge Creation Activities
https://www.eisai.co.jp/hhc/activity/index.html
[Action Platform]
Economy, Employment and Poverty / Diversity and Inclusion
[SDGs]
