112
Declaration 4-6
Every living being and all entities possessing energy are
imbued with Inochi. For a future where every Inochi un-
leashes its radiant light, we must fundamentally transform
the human-centered mindset and behaviors that dominate
society—globally. Though it will not be easy, it is essential.
The number of humans who have used their intellect to
drive material prosperity, improved nutrition, and extended
lifespans, has exceeded 8 billion—ranking us 10th among
single-species populations, more than half the number of
red-billed quelea birds (15 billion). In terms of biomass,
humans weigh 390 million tons, more than six times that of
wild mammals (60 million tons). Livestock raised for human
use adds another 630 million tons (with cattle accounting
for two-thirds). Over the past 10,000 years, nearly half of the
habitable land (around 70% of all land) has been converted
from forests and wild grasslands into agricultural land (14%
of habitable land) and grazing land for livestock (31%). This
provides a stark illustration of how much human activity
burdens ecosystems.
So, what can we do? Since we cannot suddenly reduce the
number of humans, the only path is for humans to undergo a
shift in consciousness and minimize the burdens we impose
on ecosystems. A critical element of this transformation is
rethinking the economy, which has traditionally prioritized
4-6-6
Make the burdens that human activity imposes on nature—the “Voices of Inochi”—visible
and use this as a catalyst to change our mindsets and behaviors. Let us expand Japan’s
practices into a global framework.
ecosystems as teachers and aims to revolutionize human
land use and development, returning habitats to other forms
of life. To achieve this, it is not sufficient to address only the
physical aspects such as buildings and infrastructure. While
technical solutions may exist, they are often not chosen or
implemented because they are obstructed by human sys-
tems—economic indicators, evaluation criteria, institutional
behavior, and cultural frameworks—which themselves stem
from the inner states of human beings.
Give Space approaches “space” through four dimensions:
1. Physical
2. Mental (economic, legal, organizational, cultural)
3. Emotional (feelings, emotions, sensitivities)
4. Spiritual (mind, soul)
It is a process of engaging with all these realms through
everyday actions.
Based on her previous work, Iguchi established the General
Incorporated Association Give Space Urban Design and will
advance efforts to return land to non-human lives through
three pillars:
●Research – showcasing pioneering global practices, ar-
chitectural methods and tools, and promoting academic
publications originating from Japan.
●Practice – providing urban development consulting ser-
vices for the private sector, offering educational programs
for individuals (especially children) to nurture “a sensitiv-
ity for Inochi” and “a love for nature”, and operating sites
of practical Give Space implementation in collaboration
with those who possess land but seek meaningful ways to
use it.
●Evaluation – introducing new assessment methods that
leave positive footprints on the Earth and supporting a
transition toward life-centered values in as many develop-
ment projects as possible.
The Inochi Forum will advocate for the principles of Give
Space—enabling the sharing of habitats with the lives be-
yond human beings—to be embedded in national policies,
urban development practices, and corporate initiatives, by
engaging with policymakers, public officials, architects,
engineers, and other professionals.
[Action Platform]
Urban Development and Disaster Preparedness
[SDGs]
