9
Declaration 1-1
and dance together—fostering joy, laughter, friendship, and
shared delight. When people experience moments of joy, ex-
citement, and togetherness in the same space, an indescrib-
able, beautiful feeling emerges. When these moments are
joined and shared, a circle of empathy is formed—perhaps
this is how we can take steps, however small, toward peace.
Such a circle of empathy may become the foundation for a
more peaceful world.
With this belief, Japanese classical dancer Ukon Takafuji,
JICA staff member Kota Sakaguchi, and social musician
Rikiya Nakaegawa joined forces with musical artists from
around the world to co-create a new concept: “Bon Odori
with music representing each country and region, united in
a prayer for peace.” This was the beginning of World Bon
Bon. The initiative was sparked by a conversation around
the 7th Tokyo International Conference on African Develop-
ment (TICAD VII), held in 2019. The idea emerged to cre-
ate an event where Africa and Japan could come together
through music and dance. The Africa Bon Odori Executive
Committee was launched, and as part of the TICAD VII pre-
event, thousands of people from Africa, Japan, and other
countries danced together in Yokohama. This shared expe-
rience became the foundation of the movement.
The COVID-19 pandemic temporarily halted activities, but
in 2022, a new opportunity arose. Ambassador Richards of
Jamaica approached Sakaguchi with a request: “It’s hard to
host events during the pandemic, but could we hold some-
thing in Tokyo to commemorate Jamaica’s 60th anniversary
of independence?” Inspired by this, the three collaborators
reunited with a sense of purpose. They partnered with Mr.
Macka Ruffin, a bearer of Jamaica’s roots reggae tradition,
and created a new piece called Reggae Bon Bon, along
with a companion track “JJ Partnership.” Sakaguchi con-
tributed the musical ideas, Nakaegawa led the arrangement,
and Takafuji choreographed the Bon Odori movements.
The project received enthusiastic responses, opening the
door to further opportunities.
Over the following two years, a series of original songs and
dances emerged, including:
Mexico Bon Bon, Palo Bon Bon, Nica Bon Bon, Platano
Bon Bon, Merengue Bon Bon, Bachata Bon Bon, Cotui Bon
Bon, Lao Bon Bon, Jumbo Bon Bon (Kenya), Irish Bon Bon,
Guate Bon Bon, and Pachamama Bon Bon (Bolivia).
These works have been performed in Japan, the Dominican
Republic, Jamaica, Laos, Nicaragua, and beyond.
As a culmination of these efforts, the World Bon Bon team
has now completed a new piece for the Inochi Declaration:
Inochi Bon Bon. This work was created with the hope that
through dance, people can feel the vitality of Inochi and
allow it to shine. During the Inochi Declaration Festival on
October 11, participants will join in singing and dancing to
this and other songs as the grand finale of the event.
The Inochi Forum is committed to sharing and expanding
the songs and dances of World Bon Bon—especially Inochi
Bon Bon—with people of all backgrounds. By doing so, we
will nurture actions that shine with Inochi and embody the
hope for peace. Let us reflect on what we can do, find com-
panions who share our vision, and take meaningful steps
forward—together.
[References]
・Artist in Project | International Activities – JICA (Music and cho-
reography are available )
https://www.jica.go.jp/overseas/america/plaza/aip.html
[Action Platform]
Peace and Human Rights / Arts, Culture and Sports
[SDGs]
Production and filming of the song and dance piece Reggae Bon Bon commemorating
the Jamaica’s 60th anniversary of independence
