115
Declaration 5-1
In recent times, as seen in the issue of rising prices of rice
in Japan, things we take for granted in our daily lives are
no longer guaranteed. Global challenges such as climate
change and biodiversity loss are deeply connected to the
food we consume every day. As of 2023, the number of
people suffering from hunger worldwide has risen to 730
million*1
. While one in every eleven people on the planet fac-
es food insecurity, one billion tons of food is wasted annual-
ly. In Japan alone, 38 kilograms of food waste is generated
per person each year*2
. Food is vital for nutrition and health
and is an essential element that sustains Inochi. Precisely
because the problem of food waste is close to home, we
may discover new insights when we reflect upon it.
The war between Russia and Ukraine, which began in
2022, still shows no signs of resolution. People continue
their daily lives amid the conflict. Bread holds significant
meaning in Ukrainian culture—it is a symbolic food item.
During the Christian celebration of Easter, special breads
and cakes are prepared. In Ukraine, a country founded
on agriculture, wheat and bread symbolize culture, econ-
omy, and identity, and they are the foundation of national
sovereignty and prosperity. However, the war has spread
landmines and unexploded ordnance across the country,
continuing to threaten civilian lives. It is said that landmines
exist in about one-third of Ukraine’s territory. The United Na-
tions Development Programme (UNDP) supports landmine
clearance efforts in Ukraine. In Kherson Oblast in southern
Ukraine, wheat has been successfully harvested on de-
mined land, contributing to economic recovery and the
preservation of cultural traditions.
Food, which protects Inochi, is threatened by war, climate
change, biodiversity loss, consumer culture, and many other
factors. Nevertheless, there are actions that each of us can
take in our daily lives. These include participating in global
discussions, conducting research, and more. Food is in-
tricately connected to all issues in the world, making it an
accessible entry point for understanding these connections.
The UNDP Representation Office in Tokyo disseminates the
message that global challenges are in fact deeply linked to
the lives of people in Japan.
The term “international cooperation” may sound distant.
However, Japan and the world are interconnected. Global
issues such as climate change, conflict, and biodiversity loss
are closely linked to our daily behavior and lifestyle through
food. We invite people to reflect on these connections.
UNDP utilizes Japan’s knowledge and expertise to promote
1. Developing urban models for ecosystem coexistence,
2.Supporting innovations in environmental technology, and
3.Empowering youth to engage in policy-making and advo-
cacy.
The Inochi Forum will join hands with organizations like
SWiTCH to build a platform for action—one that supports
environmental education, promotes intergenerational
dialogue, and fosters lifestyles that are in harmony with the
resources of a single planet. Together, for the future of all
Inochi on Earth, let us take bold steps forward.
[References]
・SWiTCH Official Website
https://switch.bio/
・WWF Japan – Species Under Threat
https://www.wwf.or.jp/
・Cococolor Earth – Endangered Species List 2024
https://cococolor-earth.com/
[Action Platform]
Environment and Biodiversity
[SDGs]
5-1-2
Reflect on global challenges through something as familiar as food. Food is intricately con-
nected to global issues such as climate change and armed conflicts. Let us join hands to
address challenges other than food as well.
“20 Tragedies Hidden from the World” exhibited at the Osaka-Kansai Expo. Photo cour-
tesy of UNDP Tokyo.
