129
Declaration 5-3
standards bodies, nonprofits, and government agencies.
Among its discussion topics is the review of academic and
professional qualification systems in different countries.
ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation, in collaboration
with the National Institute of Informatics, is conducting joint
research aimed at standardizing interoperability between
domestic and international academic qualifications. In part-
nership with universities and related institutions, the project
seeks to ensure multilingual support and trustworthiness
of digital interfaces by adhering to international technical
standards discussed in the Japanese government’s Trusted
Web Initiative.
The Inochi Forum, working together with diverse organi-
zations including these, will explore a range of strategies—
through information dissemination, education, and aca-
demic–industry collaboration—to make every individual’s
strength visible and rightfully recognized.
[References]
・Joint research press release by NII and ITOCHU Techno-Solu-
tions:
https://www.nii.ac.jp/news/release/2024/1128.html
・NIAD-QE: Draft Qualifications Framework for Japanese Higher
Education
https://niadqe.jp/information/higher-education-degree-2/
・SIDI Hub
https://sidi-hub.community/
・Trusted Web Initiative
https://trustedweb.go.jp/
[Action Platform]
Diversity and Inclusion
[SDGs]
Today, the world is facing a polycrisis, with escalating con-
flicts, economic volatility, rising food prices, and intensifying
climate-related extreme weather events and disasters threat-
en global stability. As multilaterism weakens and geopolitical
tensions rise, progress towards achieving the 2030 Sustain-
able Development Goals (SDGs) is increasingly at risk.
Hunger and malnutrition—both undernutrition and obesity—
remain global crises, driven in part by poor and unhealthy
diets, with over 2.6 billion people unable to afford a healthy
diet essential for nutritional well-being. Meanwhile, as the
world recovers from the COVID-19 pandemic —the defining
health crisis of the 21st century—new disease outbreaks (i.e.
Mpox and Marburg) along with re-emerging diseases (i.e.
avian flu), are compounding public health risks. Food inse-
curity is rising, diet-related diseases are worsening, and the
urgent call for safe, healthy, and sustainable diets remains
unmet, making decisive global action more critical than ever.
With just five years left to achieve SDGs, much stronger
sense of urgency, commitment, and bold, accelerated efforts
are required from every sector and stakeholder to fulfill their
commitments and take transformative steps to tackle the
pressing challenges of food security and nutrition. The Osa-
ka Kansai Expo 2025 came at this pivotal moment, serving
as a platform to explore innovative solutions for saving,
empowering and connecting Lives — “Inochi” in Japanese
— by fostering dialogue, inspiring innovation, and driving
the global community toward a more sustainable, inter-
connected future. In essence, it aimed to create resonance
between humanity and nature, focusing on the pursuit of a
sustainable and inclusive future for all as envisioned by the
Inochi Forum.
National governments play a critical role in transforming
food systems to foster resonance between humanity and
nature, ensuring healthier diets and improved nutrition for all.
This systemic change is vital for building a sustainable, resil-
ient, and equitable future. To lead this transformation, gov-
ernments must demonstrate decisive leadership by enacting
and enforcing policies that strengthen nutrition security,
promote sustainable agriculture and protect environment.
Translating commitments into tangible results requires
concrete actions that tackle the root causes of malnutrition,
food insecurity, and climate-related challenges. Govern-
ments must ensure policy coherence across sectors to pre-
vent conflicting priorities and maximize impact. Additionally,
the strategic allocation of human and financial resources is
essential for driving sustainable implementation, advancing
research and innovation, and fostering cross-sector col-
laboration. With decisive leadership and unwavering com-
mitment, governments can create lasting changes in food
systems that nourish both people and the planet.
5-3-5
Strengthen the capacities and competencies of the academic and research community to
drive interdisciplinary systemic change, deliver evidence-based guidance, and foster global
collaboration—to lead food systems transformation, improve nutrition, and tackle climate
and health challenges, toward a healthier, more equitable future.
