44
Declaration 2-5
The theme of the Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai is “Designing
Future Society for Our Lives.” At its heart line Inochi itself.
The COVID-19 pandemic sent shockwaves of fear across
the globe, confronting humanity with the imminence of
death and reminding us of the preciousness of Inochi. Now
that everyday life is returning, overcoming this global crisis,
it is our mission as those living today to co-create a world
where every Inochi unleashes its radiant light, based on this
profound shared experience.
Looking back, why has Homo sapiens (meaning “wise
human” in Latin) flourished to such an extent on Earth,
despite not being the strongest species? It is because we
have cultivated a deep reservoir of adaptive intelligence and
transformed our vulnerabilities into strength. This persistent
wisdom—what we now recognize as the power of resil-
ience—has been key to our survival. The pandemic experi-
ence has also provided a new and significant perspective
on the field of medicine. The global efforts by researchers
and healthcare professionals, including mRNA vaccines
and anti-COVID-19 therapies, helped safeguard humanity.
As humanity begins to move forward, we have all come to
understand the true importance of resilience—flexibility and
the power to recover—in the context of medicine. Going
forward, in the face of new medical threats and intractable
diseases, it will be critical to harness the collective wisdom
of medical scientists and healthcare providers to ensure that
no Inochi is left behind as we build a radiant future.
We are entering an era of 100-year life spans in which
healthcare is shifting from the age of pharmaceuticals and
devices to one marked by cutting-edge scientific inno-
vations. These include regenerative medicine using iPS
cells, precision medicine through genome research, and
next-generation medical devices employing AI and ro-
botics. Amidst a super-aging society confronting a “heart
failure pandemic,” we are advancing future medicine that
incorporates iPS cell-derived cardiomyocyte regenerative
therapies, alongside heart transplantation and mechanical
circulatory support. The global community now looks with
great expectations to the power of medical resilience as
we challenge and overcome diseases and infections once
deemed incurable.
With this backdrop, the Future Medicine Promotion Orga-
nization / Nakanoshima Qross (NQ) has been established
at the heart of Osaka to serve as a hub for the realization
of future medicine. This location has historically fostered
medical innovation and education—from the Osaka Munic-
ipal Hospital (established in 1879), through Osaka Imperial
University’s School of Medicine (1931), to the present-day
The University of Osaka Medical School (since 1949). In
2025, NQ was launched as an Expo legacy project, integrat-
ing regenerative medicine using iPS cells, AI, and robotics
with implementation and startup acceleration. Housing com-
panies, research institutes, startups, hospitals, and clinics all
under one roof is a rarity globally, allowing for a seamless
connection between research outcomes and clinical ap-
plication. By establishing a medical industry and startup
ecosystem at NQ, we aim to implement future medicine from
Osaka to the world, realizing a society where every Inochi
unleashes its radiant light and no one is left behind.
Healthcare professionals continuously confront death, per-
ceive it objectively, and fight against life-threatening diseas-
es. Meanwhile, around the world, murders and wars occur
daily. These are the egotistical actions of unwise sapiens.
For those who dedicate their lives to protecting Inochi, such
violence is unacceptable. Have we, in this time of peace and
prosperity, forgotten to reflect on the meaning of Inochi?
Today, we must strive for a world where everyone lives with
a conscious awareness of Well-being—how to live happily—
and Well-dying—how to die with dignity—creating a healthy
and harmonious society, nation, and planet.
The Inochi Forum, in collaboration with various medical and
research institutions, will promote a future society in which
every Inochi unleashes its radiant light and no one is left
behind.
2-5-1
Promote future medicine through enhanced resilience in medicine, and realize a future so-
ciety in which every Inochi unleashes its radiant light and no one is left behind.
Declaration 2-5
Leverage advanced technologies to realize life care that attends closely to indi-
viduals and families.
Future Medicine Promotion Organization / Nakanoshima Qross (NQ)
