97
Declaration 4-4
Today, we are living in a time of unprecedented urban
concentration, where rural depopulation and the decline of
local industries are becoming increasingly serious issues.
This is not a phenomenon limited to Japan; in many devel-
oping regions such as Asia, Africa, and Latin America, the
outflow of young people to cities, the aging of rural popula-
tions, and the disappearance of local industries are pressing
social concerns. Ways of life, cultures, and craftsmanship
rooted in agricultural, mountainous, and fishing villages are
steadily vanishing, losing the opportunity to be passed on
to future generations.
In response to this situation, the joint project under the The
University of Osaka Social Solution Initiative, titled Building
Sustainable Regional Models through Agriculture, Forestry,
and Craftsmanship: Linking Local Knowledge and Tech-
4-4-4
Express our gratitude to nature and those who bring food to our tables, and remember that
each of us has a role in passing on what we value to future generations.
mously passed by the city council. Kyoto’s unique business
culture places high value on steadfast philosophies such
as “Priority to Justice over Profit” (Sen-gi Kōri) and “Per-
petual Change within Immovability” (Fueki Ryūkō), along
with trust-based relationships, originality, and the health of
the value chain. Many companies engaged in long-term
management practices grounded in these principles have
not only sustained Kyoto’s economy but also supported
citizens’ lives and the preservation of culture. Such commu-
nity-based management practices suggest an economic
activity that prioritizes what is essential to the community
over short-term profits or business scale, embodying the
values and diversity befitting the blue planet—a truly “beau-
tiful economic landscape.”
In March 2021, the Community Based Companies Forum,
launched from Kyoto, began spreading throughout Japan to
places like Kagoshima, Nagano, Sapporo, and Okinawa as a
platform for accumulating practical knowledge on business
that fulfills community aspirations. Additionally, RELEASE;
launched the Community Based Economy Journal, a busi-
ness documentary magazine that highlights economic
activities aimed at increasing local natural and cultural
capital without depleting it. The journal continues to spark
dialogue about the kinds of businesses now needed across
different regions.
In 2024, they also set up in InterConnected Arts®/Japan,
an initiative to discover the knowledge and beauty embed-
ded in traditional craftsmanship across Japan, rooted in
the symbiosis of nature and people*5
. By curating journeys
that revolve around the act of “making”—the central verb
of economic activity—and sharing these experiences with
business leaders around the world, the project aims to form
cross-border communities that expand the “Community
Based Economy” movement and foster the exchange of
knowledge and values globally.
The Chinese character for “life” (生) is said to depict the
image of grass sprouting from the soil, combining the
elements for “sprout” (屮) and “soil” (土). Without soil, there
can be no life. Together with organizations like RELEASE;,
the Inochi Forum will work to expand an economic sphere
that preserves the “soil” of diverse cultures across regions,
ensuring that Inochi can continue to live vibrantly into the
future.
[Notes]
*1 UNESCO, Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity
https://www.unesco.org/en/legal-affairs/unesco-univer-
sal-declaration-cultural-diversity
*2 Community Based Economy:
https://community-based.org/statement/
*3 Declaration of Community-based Companies in Kyoto:
https://www.city.kyoto.lg.jp/sankan/page/0000241891.html
*4 Kyoto City Ordinance on the Promotion of Sustainable Devel-
opment of Community-based Companies:
https://www.city.kyoto.lg.jp/sankan/page/0000249106.html
*5 in InterConnected Arts®/Japan
https://journey.release.world/en/in-interconnected-arts-japan
[Action Platform]
Economy, Employment and Poverty
[SDGs]
A project for discovering and sharing knowledge and beauty, uncovering the act of
creation and foregrounding it as a journey
