110
Declaration 4-6
The way coral grows—from single individuals to colonies
and eventually to reef structures—is similar to how humans
maintain and develop social organizations across genera-
tions. Coral reef ecosystems, by maintaining biodiversity,
have withstood historical climate fluctuations—warming,
cooling, and sea-level changes—with resilience. At the same
time, they are sensitive to sudden environmental changes,
suffering from bleaching due to rising sea temperatures or
4-6-4
Just as coral reefs grow while embracing diverse forms of nature, create a future where the
world’s unique natural environments and cultures are respected and flourish together, by
building a Coral Ark—an offshore university connecting humanity and nature across regions
and generations.
co-organizes the event, and operations are supported by
corporate and organizational donations. In 2025, GBEF
will be held at the Osaka-Kansai Expo, bringing together
multigenerational participants in collaborative and sus-
tainable activities. The company also aims to establish at
least one certified provider of “experiential” environmental
education and ESD in all 47 prefectures, cultivating lead-
ers for local communities.
●Sharing the Value of Zero Waste Design with Asia and
Protecting Inochi on Earth
Many Asian countries lack technologies for proper waste
management and have not developed effective recycling
systems. Some even lack customs of using trash bins.
Ishizaka Sangyo offers its recycling technologies and
intellectual assets that allow for 98% resource recovery of
construction waste to countries across Asia. By spread-
ing Zero Waste Design abroad, the company promotes
a circular economy. It actively accepts study tours and
internships from overseas and hires individuals passionate
about environmental business, supporting entrepreneur-
ship in more than five countries.
The Inochi Forum will collaborate with organizations in-
cluding Ishizaka Sangyo to encourage the development
of community models such as Santome Konjaku Mura in
regions across Japan.
[Notes]
*1 Satoyama is a Japanese term for the border area between
village and mountain, where people live in harmony with
nature.”
[References]
・Mitomi Konjaku-Mura
https://santome-community.com/
・Research Institute for “Opportunities for Experience”
https://esd-place.org/
[Action Platform]
Education and Children
[SDGs]
Our ancestors first emerged 500 million years ago.
Throughout Earth’s environmental changes, some of
our relatives went extinct, while at times, favorable
conditions in the seas led to the flourishing of many new
life forms. The more our kind thrived, the more other
living beings gathered around us.
Though we do not remember the moment of our birth,
we came into existence in the dark sea where faint, warm
light reached us.
As adults, on nights of the full moon, we release the next
generation into the water.
I was alone at first, deciding to settle and live here.
Soon after, my body tingled, and before I knew it, I
became two.
Then four, eight—dividing endlessly.
Each of the children here has a different shape, each
uniquely individual.
Small partners live within our bodies, and together we
draw strength from the sunlight.
Our bodies grow, transforming into stone and accumu
lating over years, decades, centuries, and millennia.
Though some parts are unstable, as we stack upon each
other, different kinds of beings also gather, creating a
place where diverse life converges.
A vision of a future where diverse people and nature coexist like a coral reef
