137
Declaration 5-4
The Knowledge-Creation Theory, construct-
ed and advocated by the late Professor Ikujiro
Nonaka, elucidates the principles of organiza-
tional innovation through the creation of col-
lective knowledge. At its core lies the view that
humans are dynamic entities who create mean-
ing through interactions with others toward
the common good of the future. Human beings
live to create new meanings. Knowledge is the
meaning that is subjectively created through re-
lationships, and the dynamic process of co-cre-
ating value for the common good.
Modern management tends to be biased to-
ward formal logic and numerical analysis.
When explicit knowledge predominates, the
innate human wisdom for survival—our wild
instincts—deteriorates, and new knowledge fails
to emerge. Humans feel subjectively, through
direct experience, the meaning of “here”, “now”,
and “me”. Science is the process of transform-
ing these vivid subjective experiences into ob-
jective knowledge that can be shared anytime,
anywhere, with anyone.
Knowledge creation is the spiral process of
the mutual transformation of tacit and explicit
knowledge. Tacit knowledge, including the
unconscious, is the source of explicit knowl-
edge. The SECI model (Figure 1) explains
the principles of the tacit–explicit knowledge
conversion process at the levels of individuals,
groups, organizations, and society/environment.
By standing in the other’s shoes, empathiz-
ing, sharing and co-creating tacit knowledge
(Socialization); capturing the essence through
dialogue and converting it into words and
concepts (Externalization); mobilizing all knowl-
edge to organize these concepts into theories, strategies,
and narratives (Combination); and embodying the collective
knowledge through practice (Internalization)—this dynamic
spiral allows organizational innovation to occur.
For example, Eisai Co., Ltd., a pharmaceutical company, has
applied the Knowledge-Creation Theory to management
practices. Under the leadership of the Knowledge Creation
Department directly under the president, employees global-
ly dedicate 1% of their working time to activities that initiate
the Socialization phase of the SECI model, regardless of
their job type or department.
The concept of the common good provides direction to the
vector of the organizational knowledge creation process
and serves as the daily standard for judgment. It articulates
a moral purpose—for the benefit of society and people—and
serves to unify those who resonate with this ideal into a co-
hesive and committed force. Indeed, Eisai formally included
its corporate philosophy in its articles of incorporation fol-
lowing the 2005 general shareholders’ meeting and revised
5-4-5
Humans are dynamic entities who co-create value with others in pursuit of the common
good of the future. Let us become individuals who feel before thinking, empathize with dif-
ferences, engage in dialogue, encounter leaps of insight, and persevere together as a united
scrum.
Figure 1: SECI Model
Figure 2: “Practical Wisdom Leadership”
