133
Declaration 5-4
In today’s increasingly scientific world, many look to science
alone for understanding. However, questions about life, and
what it means to live well, benefit from a holistic approach
which listens to, and values, diverse insights from science,
spirituality, philosophy, religion and personal experiences.
For example, science can investigate environmental threats,
and potential solutions, but it cannot, in and of itself, fix the
problems and ensure a sustainable future for all. The re-
sponse depends on human decisions and activity, based on
our motivations and convictions about the world. People
hold a range of religious and non-religious beliefs about
their place and purpose in the world, about their respon-
sibility to care for others and about the value and worth of
all life. Engaging with these beliefs can lead to meaningful
discussions which bring human motivation into dialogue
with the scientific data to forge a way forwards.
Science has also enabled us to develop Artificial Intelligence
and robotics with the potential to assist humans in almost
every industry and societal activity – from education and
farming, to health and social care. However, when unleashed
for the pursuit of economic growth alone, there is a risk that
such technologies are used to exploit and cause harm.
To avoid these risks, we need to develop ethical principles
alongside the science, informed by theological and philo-
sophical ideas and human values. In order to use AI in com-
passionate and equitable ways that affirm human dignity,
values and relationships, we need to understand the es-
sence and purpose of life, the differences between humans
and AI, and what is required for society and all humans to
be able to flourish.
The Faraday Institute for Science and Religion in Cam-
bridge, UK, works to improve the public understanding of
how science and religion interact, to unlock these deeper
interdisciplinary discussions and the wisdom they hold
for creating flourishing communities. This is done through
The internet, comprising AI and diverse IoT devices, may
eventually function as a planetary nervous system, moni-
toring global material flows and connecting humanity with
other life forms and ecosystems.
It is crucial that we pass on this vision—a hopeful future in
which humanity contributes to the Earth’s evolution—to the
next generation. The Earth Literacy Program’s initiatives,
including the promotion of the digital globe, are intended to
support this endeavor.
Together with organizations like the Earth Literacy Program,
the Inochi Forum seeks to form creative “co-evolutionary”
partnerships between humanity and the Earth, using vari-
ous tools to accelerate this transformation.
[References]
・SPHERE – The Tangible Earth (Official Site)
https://sphere.blue/
・University of Creativity – Co-Creation Earth School
https://uoc.world/mandala/details/?id=06Qb0V1v632
[Action Platform]
SDGs+Beyond
[SDGs]
5-4-2
Exploring scientific knowledge alongside other ways of knowing - including people’s expe-
riences, spirituality, philosophy and religion - empowers people (young and old) to make
wise, values-based decisions that promote flourishing and strengthen society’s empathy,
cohesion and inclusiveness.
A school event in the UK
Training event for educators in the UK
