71
Declaration 3-4
In Japan’s super-aged society, public libraries are expected
to play a renewed role in strengthening community ties and
fostering dialogue across generations. The success of the
New York Public Library’s Community Oral History Project,
which has collected over 1,250 personal stories and made
them publicly accessible, offers an inspiring example. By
adapting such models to the Japanese context and aligning
them with the philosophy of the Inochi Forum, public librar-
ies can become vital hubs for community resilience and
contribute to the creation of sustainable, inclusive societies.
Japanese public libraries have the potential to serve not
only as repositories of books and media, but also as “third
places” where people of all ages gather and interact. For
instance, The University of Osaka’s Social Solution Initiative
(SSI), through its project titled “Science and Humanity for
Fostering a Super-aged Society that Respects Individu-
al’s Views on Life and Death and Their Autonomy” (led by
Assoc. Prof. Miyae Yamakawa), has collaborated with local
libraries to co-host community health consultations at Suita
City’s Kento Library. The project has also evaluated how
public libraries can better serve people living with dementia
or other social challenges, including during restrictions like
those imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Moving forward, this initiative seeks to evolve further by
3-4-4
Deepen intergenerational dialogue and connection in our communities by preserving and
sharing local stories and lived experiences through digital archives, in collaboration be-
tween public libraries and historically significant public spaces.
less*1
. This raises concerns such as “Who can manage the
residents’ self-governance?” and “Who can take on the role
of caretakers?” Furthermore, the number of foreign residents
has increased in recent years, introducing language barriers.
In the northwestern area of Nishinari Ward, Osaka City,
there are over 1,500 municipal housing units across 44
buildings.It is also a dense area of aging wooden houses,
with very few private rental properties available for fam-
ily households *2
. Although Nishinari Ward promotes the
motto “For the Children”*3
, the overwhelming shortage of
family-friendly housing makes it difficult to advance these
initiatives. On the other hand, it is said that there are more
than 500 “policy vacant units” in municipal housing in
Nishinari Ward—vacant units being held back in prepara-
tion for rebuilding projects. If these units could be actively
utilized for housing child-rearing families and young house-
holds struggling to find housing, it could bring hope to
solving the shortage of self-governance leaders amid the
aging resident population.
NICE Corporation*4
, based in Nishinari Ward, has been
working to develop family-friendly rental apartments and
youth share houses repurposed from vacant homes in the
dense residential area. Partnering with local organizations
such as the Human Rights Welfare Association and Nishi-
nari Rinpo-kan Yu-to-Ai, they have been providing support
services such as consultations, community watch programs,
and safe spaces, with the aim of building mixed communi-
ties. Utilizing this network, they advocate to the local gov-
ernment to allow organizations like NICE and these local
groups to sublease the policy vacant units from the munic-
ipality and provide them as supported housing for young
people and child-rearing households.
The Inochi Forum will collaborate with diverse local orga-
nizations to promote not only the physical development
of such communities but also the soft aspects—such as
comprehensive life consultations and residents’ association
support. Through mixed community development in areas
with concentrated public housing, we aim to create neigh-
borhoods where elderly and low-income individuals do not
become isolated.
[Notes]
*1 Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism,
“About the Public Housing System”
https://www.mhlw.go.jp/file/05-Shin-
gikai-12201000-Shakaiengokyokushougaihoken-
fukushibu-Kikakuka/0000196081.pdf
*2 Osaka City, Redevelopment and Subsidy System for Dense
Housing Areas
https://www.city.osaka.lg.jp/toshiseibi/page/0000255852.
html
*3 Nishinari Ward Operation Policy, FY2023
https://www.city.osaka.lg.jp/nishinari/page/0000601001.html
*4 NICE Corporation
https://nice.ne.jp/
[Action Platform]
Urban Development and Disaster Prevention / Diversity and
Inclusion
[SDGs]
