82
Declaration 4-2
Declaration 4-2
Foster connections and mutual learning across gender boundaries to build a so-
ciety based on gender equality.
At the G20 Osaka Summit held in 2019, the W20 (Women
20)—a group of gender equality experts representing 20
countries—issued policy proposals centered on the theme:
“A New Form of Growth Through Closing the Gender Gap.”
These proposals focused on four key pillars: labor, finance,
digital innovation, and governance. Haruno Yoshida, then
co-chair of W20 and the first female vice-chair of Keidanren
as well as President of BT Japan, advocated for making the
Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai a “Women’s EXPO” to advance
gender equality through the G20 Leaders’ Declaration. In-
spired by her legacy, the Haruno Yoshida Memorial Execu-
tive Committee (HYMEC) was established and continues to
advance gender equality in all sectors of society.
One of the most urgent issues in Japan is increasing the
participation of women in decision-making positions. The
Japanese government and Keidanren have set a goal of
raising the percentage of women in executive and manage-
rial positions to 30% by 2030. HYMEC, however, aims even
higher—with a 50% target—and hosts the annual seminar
series Road to Board, which supports leadership develop-
ment and networking among women. Many graduates of
the program have since advanced to executive and senior
management positions, including overseas appointments.
These women are laying the foundation for new economic
growth, and their vision, passion, and initiative will serve as
a compass for future generations.
HYMEC is also working to increase the number of women
entrepreneurs and business leaders, recognizing that com-
panies led by women are key to driving global economic
growth. It is estimated that women entrepreneurs could
contribute an additional $6 trillion to the global economy.
However, investment in women-led businesses remains
limited, and currently, women-owned businesses receive
less than 1% of contracts within government and corporate
supply chains. To foster sustainable economic develop-
ment, it is essential to support women as creators of orga-
nizations, employers, and catalysts for inclusive economic
ecosystems. Women with strong ethical values and a desire
to contribute to society are also expected to lead the way in
promoting responsible investment and consumption.
To that end, HYMEC is partnering with WEConnect Interna-
tional, a global NPO promoting supplier diversity, to support
the goal of raising the percentage of women entrepreneurs
and business leaders to 50%. This includes prioritizing trans-
actions with women-owned and minority-owned businesses
in public procurement and corporate supply chains, while
providing access to resources and networking opportunities.
Political participation is another critical area where Japan
lags significantly behind the global standard. Bold policies
are required to address this gap. Increasing the percentage
of women in local government—where decisions directly
impact daily life and Inochi—to 50% is a pressing priority.
HYMEC is committed to eliminating the barriers between
women and political engagement by providing relevant
information and supporting dialogue and participation.
In society, at home, and in schools, unconscious bias and
rigid gender roles persist. These issues affect all genders
by limiting self-determination and creating environments
where individuals cannot fully respect their own or others’
Inochi. To counter this, HYMEC actively invites female
university students to events and supports student entre-
4-2-1
Integrate the principles of gender equality into policies and systems across all sectors of
society. By fostering mutual learning and connection among women, we can realize a new
model of a sustainable society based on gender equality.
Annual Conference and HYMEC’s Five Subcommittee
