123
Declaration 5-2
more personal time.
This vision is also reflected in one of the goals of the Japa-
nese Cabinet Office’s Moonshot Research and Development
Program: to create a society by 2050 where individuals are
liberated from the constraints of body, brain, space, and
time through avatars. As a project manager of this initiative,
Ishiguro has been deeply involved in avatar research and
development. Simultaneously, he launched the startup com-
pany AVITA Inc. to implement CG avatars in society. These
avatars are steadily taking root in Japanese society.
While avatars are built using cutting-edge technologies like
AI and robotics, their purpose is to expand users’ abilities
and enhance productivity. They also provide employment
opportunities in Japan for people with disabilities, older
adults, and people living abroad, thereby alleviating future
labor shortages. Moreover, avatars advance diversity and
inclusion. Human beings have historically discriminated
against one another based on their physical appearance.
Avatars liberate us from the physical body, enabling the real-
ization of a truly inclusive society. With avatars, we can build
a society where everyone is recognized, connected, and
coexists peacefully.
In essence, avatars offer a path to the evolution of human-
ity. Human evolution has not only been biological but also
technological. For humanity to act more freely in an expan-
sive world, we must continue evolving through science and
technology. Avatars and other technologies will guide us
into the future.
The Inochi Forum will work in partnership with organiza-
tions such as AVITA to engage the public in broad discus-
sions on how science and technology can contribute to the
evolution of individuals and society.
[References]
・Future of Life, Ishiguro Signature Pavillion at the Expo 2025
https://expo2025future-of-life.com/
・Avatar Symbiotic Society
https://avatar-ss.org/
・AVITA
https://avita.co.jp/
[Action Platform]
Medical and Welfare / Education and Children / Economy,
Employment and Poverty / Diversity and Inclusion
[SDGs]
Education, work, healthcare, and daily life utilizing avatars
