130
Declaration 5-3
To effectively guide national governments, the academic
and research community must possess key capacities and
competencies. A deep understanding of novel systems, cou-
pled with interdisciplinary expertise, is essential for tackling
complex challenges in food systems, nutrition, public health,
and climate change. The academic and research commu-
nity must integrate insights from diverse fields to provide
evidence-based policy recommendataions and conduct
high-quality studies, using advanced tools like big data and
epidemiological analysis to generate actionable insights to
shape impactful policy decisions.
Equally important are effective policy advocacy and com-
munication skills to translate complex research findings
into clear, actionable recommendations for policy-makers.
Competencies in policy analysis and evaluation enable
the assessment of existing policies and the identification
of areas for improvement. Additionally, strategic thinking
drive systemic change, while ethical and cultural sensitivity
ensures that policies are equitable, inclusive, and socially
responsible. These capacities empower the academic and
research community to play a crucial role in tackling press-
ing global challenges of food insecurity, malnutrition, and
public health.
Enhancing the capacities and competencies of the academ-
ic and research community is also crucial for counteracting
the harmful effects of commercial determinants of health,
such as the strategies, practices, and products promoted by
corporations and industries that undermine public health
and the well-being of individuals and populations.
The Health / Food group of the “Inochi” Forum, which was
formed consisting of international experts from different
disciplines and from different regions of the world, would
therefore propose to implement the following two specific
actions to strengthen the capacities and competencies of
the academic and research community, with a view to effec-
tively play its pivotal role and contribute to meet the above
mentiond challenges: *1*2
1. Strengthen knowledge sharing through organizing a
series of webinars during 2025–2026 to disseminate
information, foster discussions, and exchange insights on
critical topics related to food systems, nutrition, public
health, and climate change, specifically targeting the ac-
ademic and research community in the Asia-Pacific and
African regions
● A monthly webinar series will be organized, inviting
members from national and regional food and nutrition
societies, as well as scientific communities, with a special
focus on participants from the Asia-Pacific and African
regions.
2. Establish the Asia Pacific Collaborative Network on Food
for Humanity in close partnership with Columbia Univer-
sity’s Food for Humanity initiative (F4Hi),*3
launched on 4
February 2025
●The network will focus on developing innovative solu-
tions to transform food systems by advancing actionable
research, education, policy, and programmes related to
sustainable and equitable food systems.
● Interim progress of the network’s work will be presented
and discussed at a conference at the end of 2026.
[Notes]
*1 Nutrition and food systems transformation are vital to achiev-
ing the SDGs. Anchored in SDG 2 (Zero Hunger), they are
critical for ending hunger, improving health (SDG 3), boost-
ing learning outcomes (SDG 4), reducing poverty (SDG 1),
and fostering economic growth (SDG 8). Sustainable, resil-
ient food systems also support climate action (SDG 13) and
responsible consumption (SDG 12), positioning nutrition and
food systems as cross-cutting enablers of the entire 2030
Agenda and beyond.
*2 Schneider, KR, et al. The state of food systems worldwide in
the countdown to 2030. Nature Food, 2023, 4 (21) : 1090 –
1110.
*3 https://food.climate.columbia.edu/
[Action Platform]
Medical and Welfare
[SDGs]
