96
Declaration 4-4
hubs are known as “scale-free net-
works,” characterized by resilience to
random disruptions and high informa-
tion transmission efficiency. The inter-
net is a prime example, where search
engines like Google serve as hubs,
enabling users to navigate billions of
websites in just a few clicks. Similarly,
the third sector’s social network, by
virtue of these hubs, allows for the rap-
id spread of information and efficient
sharing of knowledge and resources.
Hubs play a pivotal role in connecting
people in response to problems, mobi-
lizing knowledge and assets, clarifying
issues, and fostering the emergence of
solutions.
Too often, efforts—via selection and concentration— focus
on problems that are well-defined and already have clear
solutions. As a result, wicked problems that are ambiguous
and lack obvious solutions tend to be neglected. To contin-
ue addressing such complex issues effectively, the Inochi
Forum will collaborate with governments, businesses, and
third-sector organizations to identify hub individuals, clarify
the conditions that enable them to thrive, and work to en-
sure that by 2030, a supportive environment is established
in which hubs can fully play their roles. We will advocate for
this to be positioned within national policies, the SDGs, and
post-SDG goals through engagement with diverse stake-
holders.
[References]
・Networks as a solution to ‘difficult problems’: What are the ‘hubs’
that hold the key to disaster recovery doing?
https://ssir-j.org/networks_as_a_way_to_solve_wicked_prob-
lems/
・Sugano, Taku (2020). Innovation Birthed by Connection: The
Third Sector and Emergent Communities, Nakanishiya Publish-
ing.
・Sugano, Taku (2022). “Weaving Networks: The Role of People
Who Connect Others,” in Solving Wicked Problems Together,
edited by Takao Dome and Goro Yamazaki, Sekai Shisosha.
[Action Platform]
SDGs+Beyond
[SDGs]
Since 2012, RELEASE; has been working as a non-profit
organization to create an economy welcomed by the future.
Inspired by the biodiversity of our blue planet, they seek to
connect cultural diversity*1
to the future by discovering, em-
bodying, and widely sharing businesses, ideas, and meth-
odologies that create a “beautiful economic landscape.”
In September 2020, RELEASE; called for the idea of “Com-
munity Based Economy” together with over 100 volunteers
both in Japan and abroad*2
.This movement was influenced
by the Declaration of Community-based Companies in
Kyoto, which begins with the statement: “A company must
have a philosophy”*3
. In response to this declaration, which
asserts that companies should prioritize people, nature,
and local communities, root themselves in their regions,
and sustain and develop together, Kyoto City enacted the
Ordinance for the Sustainable Development of Commu-
nity-based Companies in April 2019*4
. This ordinance has
helped promote regional economic development and sup-
ported business management that values diverse forms of
capital, including nature and culture.
RELEASE; was deeply involved in the entire process that led
to the emergence of this declaration and ordinance, explor-
ing why Kyoto could be a city where such initiatives were
proposed by a consensus of private enterprises and unani-
4-4-3
Practice business that fulfills the aspirations of communities that nurture cultural diversity,
and together create a beautiful economic landscape welcomed by the future.
Diagram: Social Network of Key Third-Sector Figures (June 23, 2016)
A single circle represents one person; size reflects the number of mentions. Circles are grouped by region, and lines
between circles indicate social connections.
(Source: Sugano, 2020)
