134
Declaration 5-4
academically rigorous research, public outreach, education,
training and the creation of resources.
As an important part of this, the Institute runs a programme
focusing on children and young people, who hold the keys
to solving societal challenges in the future. Research indi-
cates that young people often lack suitable opportunities
to explore their big, interdisciplinary questions about the
world, which go beyond their classroom curricula—this is
particularly true regarding discussions between science
and religious worldviews. This can result in misconceptions
which sow division and limit their effective engagement
with society’s important challenges and opportunities. By
encouraging young people to explore their big questions
about life through the lenses of science and religion, they
are not only given the opportunity to reflect on, and express,
their own individual thoughts, but are better equipped to
become global citizens who listen to others and make deci-
sions which build wise, respectful societal systems.
The Institute’s experience in this field suggests that young
people are best supported in this by direct interaction with
enthusiastic experts (such as scientists, religious leaders,
academics), alongside confident reinforcement from educa-
tors (including teachers, relevant religious leaders and oth-
ers in important positions of influence). As such, since 2013,
the Youth and Schools Programme have run over 1,400
interactive sessions, with over 46,500 children in schools,
churches, festivals and other educational settings - creating
spaces where they can explore big questions with different
scientists of faith, religious leaders and theologians. Many
educators are impressed to see how these sessions encour-
age deep questioning and sharing amongst their young
people, saying that they unleash their curiosity and stretch
their minds. The Institute has also trained and resourced
over 6,400 educators, with growing interest amongst teach-
er training programmes. Classroom resources cover topics
like climate change, bioethics and racism, as well as the
nature, power and limits of science.
The Institute’s future action plan involves continuing to build
upon this vital work, applying it to new scientific advances
and relevant societal questions, and rolling out learnings
and recommendations from their work on science and faith
education in the UK to other parts of the world in culturally
relevant ways. Their website will help facilitate this action
plan amongst educators: www.faradayeducators.com. As an
example, they will partner with the Brazilian Association of
Christians in Science (ABC2), to support their new project
to help young people nurture curiosity in faith and science
in the Brazilian context.
In collaboration with diverse research institutes like The
Faraday Institute, the Inochi Forum will actively promote the
exploration of scientific knowledge alongside other ways of
knowing—including personal experience, spirituality, philos-
ophy, and religion—to empower people to cherish Inochi.
[References]
・The Faraday Institute for Science and Religion, University of
Cambridge
https://www.faraday.cam.ac.uk/
[Action Platform]
SDGs+Beyond
[SDG]
The SDGs, aiming to address increasingly complex social is-
sues and to realize a sustainable society, not only present 17
goals and 169 targets but are also intended to highlight the
interconnectedness among these goals and targets. They
serve as a roadmap to disentangle multifaceted problems
that transcend fields and sectors. In contemporary society,
addressing social challenges requires not only high-level
expertise but also interdisciplinary knowledge, diverse skills,
and, above all, strong human connections.
In response to this need, The University of Osaka estab-
lished the Social Solution Initiative (SSI) in January 2018
with “Inochi” as a central concept. SSI functions as a think
tank led by scholars in the humanities and social sciences
and provides a space where people engaged in addressing
social challenges come together to design and implement
projects that aim for real-world impact.
SSI hosts various platforms for collaboration. The “SSI
Salon” brings together participants from across academia,
business, and NPOs for the exchange of cutting-edge infor-
mation and ideas on social issues. Other platforms include
5-4-3
Compile and articulate the knowledge and aspirations accumulated in the field of social
issues—through the lens of Inochi and incorporating academic terminology—so that these
may be shared, discussed, and spread among a wider people.
