33
Declaration 2-3
Among the various social challenges
we face, disasters have a distinct nature.
Issues such as environmental degrada-
tion, poverty, and an aging society are
ever-present across different regions,
thus encouraging ongoing action and
generating public opinion that drives
legal reform. Disasters, on the other hand,
occur only occasionally and in limited
regions, which causes interest and action
to remain confined to a small group of
individuals or communities. And yet, Ja-
pan—often referred to as a disaster-prone
nation—frequently faces such regionally
rare yet devastating events.
Given this, one might assume that Japa-
nese society excels in disaster response.
This is partially true. Japan performs well
in infrastructure-related preparedness. Roads, rivers, and
schools are built to withstand damage and are generally
restored efficiently after disasters. However, Japan cannot be
said to excel in supporting disaster victims. For instance, con-
ditions in evacuation centers often fall far below international
humanitarian standards, resulting in prolonged disorder.
The reason behind Japan’s strength in infrastructure pre-
paredness is straightforward: disaster-related infrastructure
measures are largely an extension of everyday public works,
such as road construction or school building projects by
national and local governments. There are pre-existing legal
frameworks that prompt authorities to prepare for disasters
through such infrastructure development, and when a di-
saster strikes, these same systems are rapidly mobilized by
professionals to enable recovery.
Conversely, Japan’s weakness in providing victim support
stems from a completely different structural logic. In normal
times, goods and services that support everyday life are pri-
marily supplied by for-profit enterprises through the market,
or by non-governmental organizations through quasi-mar-
kets supported by public funding (see diagram).
In times of disaster, however, local governments become the
primary actors in support provision. For many local govern-
ment employees, responding to a major disaster is a once-
in-a-lifetime experience, meaning that responses are often
unskilled and ineffective. This is one major reason disaster
victim support in Japan remains disorganized despite the
country’s frequency of disasters. Since disasters—though
infrequent—impact every aspect of daily life, it is critical to
involve the very organizations that supply goods and ser-
vices during ordinary times in disaster preparedness and
response. It is also essential that existing legal frameworks,
with which people are already familiar, preemptively incor-
porate provisions for disaster scenarios. Doing so allows
society to leverage well-practiced systems in the event of a
crisis.
The concept of designing products and services for useful-
ness not only during normal times but also during disasters
is called “phase-free.” In Japan, the Phase Free Association
was established in 2018, promoting the idea of transcending
the binary between normalcy and disaster. It is not enough
to prepare only for emergencies—we must also embed di-
saster preparedness into our everyday legal systems, there-
by establishing phase-free legal frameworks.
Recognizing that disaster response mechanisms are essen-
2-3-1
Rather than preparing solely for emergencies, transform our legal systems into “phase-free
legal frameworks” by integrating disaster preparedness into ordinary-time regulations.
Declaration 2-3
Develop disaster-prevention systems that function effectively in both normal
times and emergencies.
Diagram: Structural reasons for disorganized disaster victim support — based on Sugano, 2021
In May 2025, the Act Partially Amending the Basic Act on Disaster Management and Related Legislation was enacted.
This law introduced a registration system for “Disaster Victim Assistance Support Organizations,” enabling specialized
civil organizations to autonomously participate in disaster response. Furthermore, in order to strengthen support for
older persons and persons with disabilities, the provision of welfare services was formally integrated into the disaster
response framework. Through this amendment, the government has begun addressing Challenges 1 and 2.
