37
Declaration 2-4
Humanity has spent a long-time shaping today’s living envi-
ronment. Many cities have experienced development, and
within these urban spaces, a wide range of services neces-
sary for human activity are provided. These include housing
and building structures that offer shelter functions; trans-
portation systems enabling mobility; energy supply systems
that drive urban operations; production systems that extract
resources from nature and convert them into useful forms;
and waste treatment and resource circulation systems that
manage waste and recycle materials. Through these various
systems that support urban life, mechanisms have evolved
to autonomously enhance functionality, convenience, com-
fort, efficiency, safety, stability, cost-effectiveness, and envi-
ronmental sustainability.
At the same time, it is now clear that, as seen in the tangible
impact of climate change due to greenhouse gas emissions,
our environmental burden is increasing beyond the limits
of Earth’s ability to maintain stability-known as “Planetary
Boundaries”*1
. In response to this reality, requirements for
achieving a sustainable society have been articulated-such
as “carbon neutrality” in climate change mitigation and
nature positive in ecosystem conservation. These devel-
opments call for the formulation of concrete strategies and
their social implementation. However, the changes required
are vast and urgent: for instance, to achieve the 1.5°C global
warming target, carbon neutrality by 2050 demands an
annual reduction rate of 4%. Therefore, mere improvements
based on existing system structures are no longer sufficient.
What is needed is structural change across systems and
integration between them.
The Urban Energy Systems Lab of the Graduate School
of Engineering, (The University of Osaka) has particularly fo-
cused on modeling energy demand within the housing and
building stock and conducting scenario analysis toward
decarbonization. Within this field, conventional measures
have included introducing various energy-saving tech-
nologies, shifting energy sources in thermal applications
like air conditioning and water heating, and promoting the
use of renewable energy, primarily solar power. However,
the IPCC’s Sixth Assessment Report*2
highlights the need
to go beyond existing measures by adopting digital solu-
tions, encouraging behavioral and lifestyle changes among
residents and users, and promoting integrated operation
between demand and supply sides of services. These broad
perspectives are necessary to envision system change and
advance integration across systems and sectors. Likewise,
such extensive and rapid transformations are also required
in related domains.
Furthermore, Osaka Prefecture and City have been selected
alongside Tsukuba City for the Japanese Cabinet Office’s
Super City initiative. The Osaka Super City Project is in-
volved in constructing the Osaka Regional Data Exchange
Network (ORDEN), which is expected to evolve into a dig-
ital twin of the city. At The University of Osaka’s D3 Center,
joint research on digital twins for smart cities and smart
buildings is being conducted in collaboration with Daikin
Industries through the D-child initiative. In addition, the cen-
ter is researching evacuation simulations using digital twins,
contributing to resilient urban development.
Given this background, the DX Society Research Division,
the Institute for Open and Transdisciplinary Research
Initiative, The University of Osaka and the Urban Energy
Systems Lab are envisioning an action plan toward 2050
that includes building a Digital Twin*3
Platform for system
integration. This platform will convert and visualize data
related to housing, urban structures, and infrastructure
into a 3D urban model. It will comprehensively incorporate
operational and management data from various systems,
2-4-1
Build a shared urban data platform (Digital Twin Platform), and through its utilization and
system integration, realize decarbonization, zero waste, and disaster resilience—transform-
ing cities into safe and sustainable environments.
Declaration 2-4
Establish sustainable systems for resource recycling and energy circulation to
protect the Earth’s environment.
Urban Digital Twin Platform
