70
Declaration 3-4
Are you familiar with the current state of public housing in
Japan?
Public housing provides affordable, high-quality living
environments for low-income individuals and families who
struggle to secure housing. National and local governments
cover construction and other costs. Admissions are typi-
cally open to the public and are subject to income require-
ments. Rent is not fixed; it operates under a rent scheme
that increases proportionally with income, based on the
ability-to-pay principle. Unlike private rental housing, where
outsourcing maintenance services incurs additional resi-
dent costs, public housing is managed on the principle of
resident self-governance to avoid excessive burdens. This is
the ideal operation of public housing.
However, under the ability-to-pay principle, households that
see an improvement in income tend to move out. Conse-
quently, new tenants are mostly low-income individuals
or those facing welfare challenges. As a result, the Minis-
try of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT)
disclosed that, in 2015, the elderly population (aged 60 or
older) in public housing accounted for 60% of residents, and
80% of households had monthly incomes of 104,000 yen or
3-4-3
Create mixed communities where people of diverse generations can live vibrantly, ensuring
that elderly and low-income residents in areas with a concentration of public housing do
not become isolated.
laboration with shopping districts, financial institutions,
ESG initiatives of businesses, and local government digital
transformation policies. Then, institutionally, legal definitions
around digital certification and taxation frameworks for val-
ue transfers must be clarified in consultation with relevant
agencies. In addition to these initiatives, the governance of
the entire system will prioritize openness—both in protocols
and services—allowing participants to take active owner-
ship in its development and evolution.
The initiative begins with basic implementation in commer-
cial and public facilities, validating the processes of value
creation based on behavior. Key challenges include (1)
Maintaining sustained engagement from users, (2) En-
suring the reliability of data and (3) Establishing objective
standards for evaluating value. Each of these issues will
be addressed in turn. Success will be measured through
indicators such as monthly active users, the volume of value
created, and the economic impact on the local community.
Through ongoing evaluation and refinement, the project
seeks to foster an ecosystem in which community members
take ownership of the system, supported by natural emer-
gence of service providers. Each community can adapt
this foundational model to its own local context, connect-
ing loosely with others through shared principles, thereby
co-creating a new, contemporary model of value circulation
that is inclusive and regenerative.
The Inochi Forum, together with initiatives such as Contin-
uum Social and other organizations, will build systems that
make the creation and circulation of data-driven value more
democratic and open, and will strive to realize a society
where the value created by all is shared by all—a society in
which every Inochi unleashes its radiant light.
[References]
・Continuum Social
https://www.continuum.social/
・A Novel Framework for Reputation-Based Systems
https://a16zcrypto.com/posts/article/reputation-based-systems/
・The Future of Work is Not Corporate — It’s DAOs and Crypto
Networks
https://a16zcrypto.com/posts/article/the-future-of-work-daos-
crypto-networks/
・Chris Dixon:Read Write Own Buildng the next era of the internet
Read Write Own - Chris Dixon
・Jesse Walden : Fund Raising and Deal Structure
Fundraising and Deal Structure - a16z crypto
・Scott Kominers:Everything Token
https://www.hbs.edu/faculty/Pages/profile.aspx?facId=500905
[Action Platform]
SDGs+Beyond
[SDGs]
A place to belong, a role to play, building connections
