124
Declaration 5-3
Declaration 5-3
Re-examine the richness of Inochi and develop new indicators of value that cap-
ture culture, empathy, and connection with nature.
The affluence brought by industrial society has been
achieved under an economic system based on the spiral-up
of production and consumption: producing goods that
enhance people’s lives at lower cost, selling them in greater
quantities, thereby increasing revenues and raising incomes,
which in turn stimulates further consumption. Throughout
this process, countless forms of Inochi nurtured by the Earth
and the mechanisms that sustain them have been continu-
ously extracted and consumed. However, today, the scale
of this system’s force has grown to surpass the regenerative
capacity of the planet’s Inochi*1
.
For this reason, transforming our economic system is one
of the critical imperatives of the Inochi Declaration, and
to achieve this, we must redefine our metrics of wealth.
Instead of directing human growth ambitions solely toward
competition based on material and monetary “quantitative
economic indicators,” we must foster a new orientation—
one that awakens humanity’s inherent desire for mutual aid
and sustainability—guided by value metrics aimed at the
regeneration, nurturing, and circulatory viability of Inochi,
including human life itself.
To drive such social transformation, we can utilize future
diagrams based on the SINIC Theory—a future forecasting
theory*2
. This theory was presented around the time of the
Expo 1970 in Osaka by Kazuma Tateishi, the founder of
OMRON. Today, not only OMRON but also many young en-
trepreneurs, executives of large corporations, and national
and local governments are increasingly resonating with and
applying this model.
The SINIC Theory is characterized by its approach of
retracing a million years of human history and predicting
future societies based on the cyclical interactions among
science, technology, and society. According to the theory,
we are now at the “Optimization Society” stage—a major
transition from the Industrial and Information Societies,
which emphasized individual and material values, toward
the “Autonomous Society” and “Natural Society,” where the
heart and community are revalued, ushering in new forms
of affluence. Achieving autonomy requires setting a course
toward decentralized networked societies, value creation
through regeneration, and ethical capitalism, while develop-
ing new value metrics and economic systems.
In this context, the twin driving forces for the economic
systems leading toward the future are envisioned as the
“Regenerative Economy” and “Ethical Capitalism”.
The first, “Regenerative”*3
, is often misunderstood as syn-
onymous with circular economy or sustainability. Originally,
the term referred to agriculture that revitalizes degraded
soils and restores diminished wildlife and plant species
while producing food. Extending this concept beyond mate-
rial and resource recycling and ecosystem restoration, the
regenerative economy envisions economic activities that
treat society as a living collective and support the regenera-
tion of various forms of degraded Inochi—an economy that
5-3-1
Aim for new forms of wealth based on value metrics that awaken the desire for symbiosis,
ensuring the sustainable circulation and regeneration of the Inochi that embraces both hu-
manity and the artifacts we create.
Left: SINIC Theory Science, Technology and Society Diagram
Right: The Basic Model of SINIC Theory
