58
Declaration 3-2
The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child states the
rights of children to live in a healthy environment, and to
contribute to decisions affecting their lives. One of the
current major issues affecting the lives of children is the
increasing threat of climate-related disasters. Good health
and wellbeing, and climate action, have both been identified
as sustainable development goals. Any efforts to address
these combined issues need to be developed with, by and
for children and young people. This approach is consistent
with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction*1
and the Nurture Pillar of the Inochi Declaration.
A major risk associated with disasters is long term mental
health problems*2
, particularly for those who experience
more than one disaster*3
. Mental health problems can arise
from experiencing the disaster event and also the difficulties
and changes that occur in the years afterwards including
damaged homes, schools and local services which can
force families to move away from their communities and
support systems. Children and young people who are very
worried about climate change may also experience mental
health problems*4
.
There are many examples of the important contributions
children and young people have made to disaster resilience,
including the Student Volunteer Army in Aotearoa New Zea-
land which was initially mobilised by University of Canter-
bury students using social media following the Christchurch
earthquakes. Disaster risk reduction and recovery support
programs*5*6
are also important strategies for engaging
children and young people in disaster preparedness and
guiding them through disaster experiences. However, more
evidence is needed to understand the best ways to support
their mental health and wellbeing, particularly for groups
who may have specific needs such as preschool children,
children with disabilities, and those from diverse cultural
and ethnic backgrounds.
If there was a consistent way for children and young people
to share their thoughts and ideas about disaster resilience,
it would help everyone understand the importance of their
voices, and it would become normal to include their views
and experiences when decisions are being made that im-
pact them. It would also give young people the chance to
work together, share new ideas, and learn from each other
across different cultures and countries.
The Inochi Forum is committed to advocating for the estab-
lishment of tiers of local, regional and international net-
works of Young Disaster Resilience Leaders as an ongoing
responsibility for government and non-government disaster
agencies. These leadership groups and networks would
help young people become stronger leaders: supporting
their sense of empowerment and agency and their opportu-
nities to contribute to community resilience. It is possible to
involve younger children as disaster resilience contributors
to these networks via supportive contexts such as schools
and community settings. There should be ways for all
children and young people to contribute including differ-
ent ages, genders, abilities, family backgrounds and living
circumstances.
For this to work, it needs support from adults and other
young people and their organisations. These supporters
would work together to ensure that Young Disaster Resil-
ience Leaders develop skills to manage stress related to
disasters, at the same time as helping others in a safe and
trauma informed way. There also needs to be succession
planning allowing for new leaders bringing in fresh ideas
as the older ones grow up and become leaders in the adult
world. Finally, adults in government, health, disaster services
and schools would need to be open to learning themselves,
creating safe spaces for contributions from children and
young people, and listening to what they say so that their
ideas help to make real changes.
Setting up these groups can be difficult, especially after a di-
saster when things are chaotic. Fortunately, researchers and
young people with lived experience of disasters in Western
Australia have great advice on how to engage young people
in disaster risk reduction (https://shorturl.at/lyjKe). Getting
started early can make sure things are in place before a
disaster occurs. Commemorating past disasters can also be
a helpful way to do this – such as the memorials and events
held in Kobe, Japan in January 2025 to mark the 30th an-
niversary of the 1995 Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake and
engage the next generation in learning and preparedness
activities.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
Youth Preparedness Council in the USA and the National
Centre of Excellence: Young People & Disasters in Australia
demonstrate different ways to establish youth leadership in
disaster resilience. By highlighting the success of existing
initiatives, and advocating for a more networked approach
within and across countries, the Inochi Forum together with
3-2-3
It is time to create new ways for children and young people to share their ideas about how
to be healthy and happy despite the threat and impact of disasters. By working together
and contributing to solutions, they can be empowered to face disaster challenges and be
part of a global effort to increase disaster resilience.
