104
Declaration 4-5
as foundational sources. Severing these sources from the
economy undermines its sustainability and may lead to
exploitative, one-sided relationships. Miratsuku aims to
make these four types of capital—these sources—visible, to
recognize and honor their existence, and to realize a society
where a more expansive cycle of economy, born from this
recognition, becomes the norm. They believe that the key to
this lies in leadership that links the “source”, the “resource”,
and “our lives,” and contributes to rebuilding the world.
The Inochi Forum, like Miratsuku and esse-sense, aims to
realize a sustainable society by fostering leadership that,
through dialogue, helps us understand the worldviews of
others, turns our attention to the sources sustaining our
economy, and connects those sources to our lives.
[References]
・Miratsuku
https://emerging-future.org/
・esse-sense Inc.
https://esse-sense.com/
[Action Platform]
Diversity and Inclusion
[SDGs]
Let us look back at the situation of
people with intellectual disabilities
in Japan 25 years ago. In 1998,
intellectual disabilities were includ-
ed in the calculation basis for the
statutory employment rate. In 1999,
the derogatory legal term “seishin
hakujaku” (mental retardation) was
changed to “intellectual disability.”
In 2000, with the structural reform
of social welfare, service use shifted
from “administrative measures” to
“user contracts”. While the over-
haul of employment-related service
systems would come later (2006), at the time, local govern-
ments were struggling to promote employment support for
people with intellectual disabilities.
During that period, an idea was born in Osaka Prefecture:
the “Welfare of the Government*1
” initiative. Facing a fiscal
crisis, Osaka chose not to allocate new budgets but to lever-
age existing programs and resources to create employment
and work opportunities for people with disabilities and
others needing support. One key focus was cleaning ser-
vices, which matched the strengths of people with intellec-
tual disabilities. By adding the value of vocational training
for people with intellectual disabilities to cleaning contracts,
Osaka introduced a comprehensive evaluation competi-
tive bidding system that considered not only price but also
disability employment outcomes. This approach generated
significant employment opportunities. Today, building main-
tenance companies participating in cleaning bids for large
Osaka Prefecture facilities maintain a disability employment
rate of over 10%, transforming the industry itself into a social
enterprise.
L-Challenge, the cooperative undertaking vocational train-
ing contracts, was recognized in 2019 as Osaka Prefecture’s
first “Support Organization for Improvement of Work Envi-
ronment for Persons with Disabilities”*2
. Its role is to stand
between companies contracted by the prefecture and the
employees with disabilities, creating workplaces that are
truly inclusive—not simply outsourcing arrangements aimed
at meeting legal disability employment quotas*3
. While
hiring people with disabilities to meet the statutory em-
ployment rate is one thing, what matters is to move beyond
4-5-6
Support starting to work and continuing to work for everyone by shifting public procure-
ment from price competition to competition on employment quality and strengthening in-
termediary support organizations that focus not just on the number but also the quality of
employment.
