118
Declaration 5-1
UNEP Sustainability Action platform in 2020.*1
This platform is composed of United Nations
agencies leading SDG initiatives, private
corporations that support daily lives (such as
Seven & i Holdings, Fast Retailing, and Ra-
kuten Group), and advisor Pikotaro (Japanese
Comedian). With the message “Our Actions
Protect the Earth,” the platform has continu-
ously promoted the importance of resource
circulation and concrete actions, introducing
efforts to reduce plastic waste and food loss
and encouraging eco-friendly lifestyles. These
messages will also be conveyed to the world
during the Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai Theme
Weeks.
Building on this foundation, we are upgrading our efforts
into a new initiative called the Sustainability Action Forum
(provisional name) aiming to achieve a carbon-neutral
society based on resource circulation by 2025. We plan
to expand the platform by forming new partnerships with
domestic and international organizations, institutions, busi-
nesses, and other platforms that share our mission, amplify-
ing the impact and outcomes of our activities. Specifically,
we will collaborate on campaigns aligned with UN Interna-
tional Days, unique initiatives led by various entities, and the
construction of joint projects. By joining forces through this
platform, we aim to maximize achievements.
These partnerships will foster empathy among citizens
(consumers) and drive behavioral change, expanding the
circle of awareness for the importance of protecting Earth’s
environment and Inochi from individuals to society, from lo-
cal to global levels. This will accelerate efforts to achieve the
2030 SDGs and further evolve into SDGs+Beyond initiatives
aimed at realizing an ideal carbon-neutral society by 2050,
based on resource circulation.
The Inochi Forum will work to increase the number of
partner companies and organizations that resonate with
the principle of “cherishing Inochi,” reaching a broader
audience of consumers, and expanding partnerships across
United Nations agencies, corporations, governments, local
authorities, academic institutions, NGOs, influencers, and
more. Together with organizations like UNEP Sustainability
Action and other platforms, we will form an even larger plat-
form that leverages the diverse strengths born from differ-
ent collaborations, creating significant societal and global
impact and driving the movement to realize a sustainable
planet by 2050.
[Notes]
*1 UNEP Sustainability Action:
https://www.unep-sustainability-action.org/
[Action Platform]
Resource Recycling
[SDGs]
Sustainability Action Forum (provisional name)
