Global M&A Handbook                                                                                 Japan




Japan
1.1      Overview
Japan is the world’s third largest economy. In the past, specific sectors that have experienced
significant M&A and investment activity include financial services, including insurance and securities
brokerage; telecommunications; automotive; retail; and information technology. Historically, the
volume of mergers and acquisitions has been relatively low in Japan compared to other major
industrialised markets. However, there have been significant developments in the Japanese M&A
market over the last several years.

First, the volume of M&A transactions increased enormously in the early part of the decade, peaking
at over 2,500 transactions in 2006–a five-times increase on volumes seen ten years earlier. In 2013,
2,048 M&A deals involving Japanese companies were completed. The biggest driver of this
expansion has been domestic growth, i.e. transactions between Japanese corporations. The volume
of inbound transactions also rose during the period but fell sharply following the global financial crisis
(GFC). The GFC did, however, trigger a wave of outbound transactions as Japanese corporations
took advantage of comparatively robust balance sheets, lower prices and less competition for offshore
assets to expand in overseas markets. There is strong optimism that this trend will continue in the
foreseeable future.

Second, Japan witnessed increasing numbers of private equity funds, both domestic and foreign,
entering the M&A market, driving growth in buy-outs and acquisition finance in Japan and ushering in
more volumes of public-to-private transactions.

Third, the decade saw a series of major corporate law reforms introduced in 2006 which made it
possible to implement a range of new M&A vehicles, such as triangular mergers, and prompted
several high-profile corporate takeover attempts and a wave of ‘poison pill’ plans. Further changes are
expected to come with the first major amendment to the Companies Act (the Amendment), due to
come into force in May 2015. The Amendment sets out a number of new rules and regulations
including a new mechanism for majority shareholders to utilise in ‘squeezing-out’ small minority
shareholders. The Amendment expressly provides for a new squeeze-out option under which a
majority shareholder holding a 90% or greater stake in any company (whether public or private) will be
entitled (with the approval of the board of directors) to compel all other shareholders and option-
holders to sell their shares and options in the company to the majority shareholder. It is hoped that
this new scheme will enable a squeeze-out to be completed quickly and efficiently without adverse tax
consequences.

1.2      General Legal Framework
The Japanese legal system is a civil law system modelled principally on German and French law.
Some specialised legislation, such as the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act (FIEA), is
modelled on US law.

The primary sources of Japanese law are codes and statutes. Key codes and statutes applicable to
M&A include the Companies Act, the FIEA and the Anti-Monopoly Act. Foreign investment is subject
to certain mandatory reporting requirements and, in limited instances, approval procedures under the
Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act (FEFTA).

As in many civil law jurisdictions, in most cases the primary codes and statutes set out only the broad
legal principles. These are supplemented, to some extent, by case law and subordinate legislation.

However, for cultural and other reasons, litigation in the commercial sphere is relatively rare in Japan,
and on many issues no extensive body of case law exists.

Subordinate legislation may take the form of cabinet orders, enforcement orders, ministerial orders
and other rules formulated by government agencies. Although these regulations help articulate the
law, considerable discretion is often vested in the agency charged with administering them.




Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                   265Global M&A Handbook                                                                                              Japan




1.3      Corporate Entities
Two main types of company available in Japan are:

•        a corporation, known in Japan as a ̒Kabushiki Kaisha’ (sometimes translated as ‘joint stock
         company’) or ̒KK̕ , and

•        a limited liability company, known in Japan as a ̒Gōdō Kaisha̕ or ̒GK̕ .

1.3.1    Corporations
The most common form used by foreign companies setting up operations in Japan is the KK
corporation. A KK is similar to a US close corporation or, when listed on a stock exchange, akin to a
US public corporation. It is also similar to the German AG corporate form. A shareholder’s liability is
limited to the initial capital contribution made for the shares to which it subscribes.

The Companies Act allows a KK to be incorporated using a range of different corporate governance
models.

The minimum governance requirement depends on the size and type of a KK. The simplest corporate
governance model for a private KK (i.e. one that restricts the transfer of shares in its articles of
                                                             1
incorporation) involves the appointment of just one director. If a KK has only one director, the sole
director automatically becomes the representative director. A KK must have at least one
representative director who must be a resident of Japan (but need not be a Japanese national). 2 For
KKs that have only one director, major actions are approved either by the representative director or
the shareholders.

A private KK can further choose whether or not to organise its directors as a board. A KK that
chooses to organise its directors as a board, fittingly referred to as a ‘Corporation with a Board of
Directors’ (torishimariyakukai secchi kaisha) in Japanese corporate law terms, must appoint at least
three directors, of which at least one must be appointed as a ̒representative director.̕ A Corporation
with a Board of Directors must also have at least one company auditor (or a board of at least three
company auditors, if a listed company), unless the KK has adopted a committee system of
governance.

A KK that has adopted the three-committee system of governance, a corporation with committees
(iinkai secchi kaisha) has the following board level committees: audit committee, nomination
committee and compensation committee. Each committee must have at least three directors, the
majority of whom must qualify as outside directors under the Companies Act. Unlike the traditional
corporation with a board of directors, in a corporation with committees, the board of directors has a
primarily oversight function, while the day-to-day business is executed by the executive officers
appointed by the board of directors. The Amendment will add the corporation with an audit and
supervisory committee (kansa-to-iinkai secchi kaisha) as a further option among the range of
governance models. This model will feature one board level committee, the audit and supervisory
           3
committee which must be comprised at least three directors, a majority of which must qualify as
outside directors under the Companies Act.

The Companies Act abolished the previous requirement of a minimum share capital of JPY10 million
for the incorporation of a KK. It is now possible for a KK to incorporate with capital of only one Yen.
However, a KK must have net assets of at least JPY3 million before it may distribute profits to
shareholders.


1
  Note however, that a private KK that has stated capital of JPY500 million or more, or total liabilities of JPY20
billion or more, falls within the definition of a ̒Large KK̕ and becomes the subject of additional duties, including
being required to appoint at least one company auditor and an accounting auditor.
2
  Note however, that discussions are ongoing within the Japanese government to abolish this residency
requirement.
3
  To more clearly distinguish between this model and the Corporation with Committees model, both of which
embody a committee system, the name of the Corporation with Committees model will be changed to shimei-
iinkai-to secchi kaisha (loosely translated as ‘corporation with nomination and other committees’, however, the
official English translation of the new form has yet to be confirmed).



Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                                   266Global M&A Handbook                                                                                   Japan



1.3.2    Limited liability companies
The Companies Act also introduced a new ̒hybrid’ entity that is a combination of a company and a
partnership. This is the GK which is modelled along the lines of the US LLC. A GK functions internally
like a partnership but the members’ liability is limited.

It is possible to incorporate a GK with just one investor, described as a ‘partner’. Each partner has the
right to manage the GK, but ̒executive partners̕ may be appointed to operate and manage the GK if
this option is provided for in the articles of incorporation. An executive partner owes fiduciary duties to
the GK, similar to those that directors owe to a KK. There is no stated minimum number of executive
partners under the Companies Act. It is possible for a legal entity (i.e. a corporation, including a
foreign company) to become an executive partner, as long as the legal entity appoints an individual,
referred to as the ̒executive manager,̕ to represent it. Although not specifically stipulated in the
Companies Act, it is possible for a foreign company to be the sole partner of a GK. In that scenario, it
is necessary for the foreign company to appoint an individual as the executive manager to represent
it. The executive manager representing the foreign company must be a resident of Japan but need
not be a Japanese national. However, where there is more than one executive manager, only one
executive manager is required to be a resident of Japan. The executive manager owes fiduciary
duties to the GK similar to those that a director would owe a KK.

There is no minimum capital requirement upon the incorporation of a GK. Accordingly, it is possible to
establish a GK with just one Yen. A GK may distribute profits periodically to members to the extent it
has any distributable surplus.

2.       Acquisition Methods
In Japan, a private acquisition usually takes the form of either a share acquisition, which involves
purchasing the shares in the company that owns the business, or a business transfer, which involves
purchasing the assets and liabilities of the business being acquired. However, mergers and company
splits are also widely used for business acquisition purposes.

2.1      Acquisition of Shares
An acquisition of shares in a Japanese private company may be implemented by way of private
agreement, whereas an acquisition of shares in a company listed on a Japanese stock exchange may
trigger certain tender offer requirements under the FIEA if an acquirer seeks to acquire more than
one-third of the company’s voting shares in an off-market transaction. A share purchase agreement
(SPA) is usually prepared to record the agreement of the parties over their respective rights,
obligations and liabilities in connection with the transaction.

2.2      Business Transfer
The Companies Act recognises two types of business transfer: one that involves the transfer of ̒all or
a substantial part̕ of a Japanese company’s business which requires approval by a special resolution
of the shareholders (see 3.2.2), and one that does not. The distinction between the two different types
of transfer is not always clear. For example, a sale by a company of a single manufacturing facility, or
a single operating division or branch office may be regarded as a transfer of a ̒substantial part̕ of its
business. However, the question is usually determined on the basis of an objective assessment of the
relative importance of the business sold compared with the company’s overall business (e.g. as a
proportion of the company’s total amount of sales, earnings and workforce). The Companies Act
indicates that a transaction would not be deemed a transfer of a ‘substantial part̕ of a company’s
business if the book value of the assets being transferred is not more one-fifth of the total assets of
the seller, and the transaction will therefore be exempted from the special shareholders’ resolution
requirement if that is the case.




Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                    267Global M&A Handbook                                                                                      Japan




2.3      Mergers/Other Acquisition Methods
2.3.1    Mergers
There are two types of merger available under the Companies Act:

•        merger by absorption, where the acquirer takes over all of the assets and liabilities of the
         target company and the target company is dissolved, and

•        merger by incorporation, where the assets and liabilities of both parties are acquired by a
         newly incorporated third party and both parties are dissolved.

Merger by absorption is by far the most common method used in Japan.

A merger will usually proceed by way of an issue of shares in the surviving company to the
shareholders of the target company. A merger is often used to rationalise the operations of subsidiary
entities. ‘Cash-out’ mergers, involving mergers by absorption, are also allowed under the Companies
Act.

The Companies Act does not currently permit mergers directly between foreign corporations and
Japanese corporations. However, there are provisions under the Companies Act that permit
acquisitions of Japanese corporations using shares in foreign companies (so-called ‘triangular
mergers’). Subject to certain Japanese tax law requirements, triangular mergers can take place by
way of an allocation of the foreign company’s shares owned by its Japanese subsidiary (the surviving
company) to the shareholders of the target company (the dissolving company).

2.3.2    Company splits
The Companies Act provides for two types of company split:

•        an incorporation-type company split (shinsetsu bunkatsu) in which a new company is
         incorporated by operation of law and acquires the assets and liabilities divested by the
         company undergoing the split, and

•        an absorption-type company split (kyūshū bunkatsu) in which an existing company acquires
         or ̒absorbs̕ the assets and liabilities divested by the company undergoing the split.

In the context of a company split transaction, the legal term for the divesting company (the company
undergoing the split) is the ‘splitting company’ and the legal term for the company taking over the
assets/liabilities from the splitting company is the ‘succeeding company’.

Company splits are often used as an alternative structure to business transfers because they are
more efficient from a procedural perspective (no need to obtain third-party or employee consents −
see Employee Issues) and also from a tax perspective (see Transfer Taxes).

3.       Negotiation, Signing and Closing
3.1      Customary Issues in Negotiating Acquisition Agreements
The following is a brief overview of certain key provisions in typical Japanese purchase agreements.
Baker & McKenzie’s fully interactive comparison of these same provisions across the range of
jurisdictions covered in this Handbook can be accessed by clicking here.

Purchase Price

1       Is a purchase price adjustment                   Purchase price adjustments common. All types seen,
        common?                                          including working capital adjustment, cash-free debt-
                                                         free, NAV adjustments.
        What type is common (e.g. debt-free,
        cash-free)?




Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                       268Global M&A Handbook                                                                                        Japan




2       Is there a collar on the adjustment?             Collars are not common.

3       Who prepares completion balance                  Usually prepared by seller or target company.
        sheet?

4       Is the balance sheet audited?                    Not necessarily.

5       Is an earn-out common?                           Not common.

6       Is a deposit common?                             Not common.

7       Is an escrow common?                             Not very common, but occasionally requested. Few
                                                         local escrow service providers. Buyers may also rely
                                                         on holdback.

8       Is a break fee common?                           Uncommon.

Conditions Precedent

9       Express Material Adverse Event                   Often seen where there is a long period before
        (MAE) completion condition?                      execution and completion. More common where a
                                                         Japanese buyer is involved.

10      Is the MAE general or specific?                  Both are seen.

11      Quantification of MAE?                           Not sufficiently widespread to qualify as common.

Covenants, Access

12      Is a non-compete common? Do you                  Common, but not from private equity sellers. Waterfall
        use waterfall/blue pencil provisions?            provisions uncommon.

13      Non-solicit (of employees)?                      Common (in conjunction with a non-compete).

14      Non-solicit (of customers)?                      Common (in conjunction with a non-compete).

15      Broad access to books, records,                  Generally get this for private deals.
        management between sign and
        close?

16      Is it common to update warranty                  Both are seen but more common to notify of possible
        disclosure or notify of possible                 breach (though notification usually not deemed to
        breach? What is the consequence?                 constitute exception to applicable warranty).
                                                         Consequence of breach negotiable: right to terminate
                                                         or claim damages.

17      Is a separate tax covenant/indemnity             Not sufficiently widespread to qualify as common.
        or tax deed common?

Representations and Warranties

18      Materiality in representations – how is          Materiality qualifiers commonly seen but are often not
        it quantified (e.g. by a $ amount)?              quantified (other than specific warranties e.g. contract
                                                         value).

19      How is knowledge qualified                       Knowledge qualifiers depend on risk-sharing in the
        (e.g. specific people,                           deal. Often limited to the actual knowledge and due
        actual/constructive knowledge)?                  enquiry of a specified list of senior management.




Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                          269Global M&A Handbook                                                                                         Japan




20      Is a warranty that there is no                   Not very common but can be negotiable depending
        materially misleading/omitted                    on buyer’s bargaining power and extent of disclosed
        information common?                              information during the course due diligence.

21      Is disclosure of data room common?               Becoming more common where a UK/Australian
                                                         seller is involved.

Repetition of Representations and Warranties

22      Is it common to repeat warranties at             Repetition at completion common. Bring-down
        completion/at all times between                  certificates not very common.
        signing and completion? Is bring-
        down certificate at completion
        common?

23      What is the applicable standard? True            Both seen in Japan.
        in all material respects? Material
        Adverse Effect standard?

24      Is double materiality common?                    Double materiality usually avoided.
        e.g. where a materiality qualification
        is included in the bring-down
        condition to one party’s obligation to
        close as well as in one or more
        representation.

Limitations on Liability

25      What is the common cap amount (as                Buyer will ask for 100% but usually negotiated down.
        a percentage of purchase price)?                 Range from 10%–100%.

26      Does the cap (and other limitations on           Both are seen regularly.
        liabilities) apply to the whole
        agreement or just warranties (or other
        particular terms)?

27      What are the common exceptions to                Key warranties are often excepted (e.g. title,
        the cap?                                         capitalisation, authority). Often tax and specific areas
                                                         of concern, sometimes with specific higher caps.
                                                         Separate caps can be negotiated.

28      Is a deductible or basket common?                Becoming more accepted in market. Deductible very
                                                         much case-by-case.

29      Is a de minimis common?                          Becoming more common.

30      How long does liability survive? Are             If tax indemnity included, tax matters usually survive
        there any common carve-outs (e.g.                until a short period after SOL, i.e. the period in which
        fraud, tax, key warranties)?                     tax authorities can audit the target.

31      Is warranty insurance common?                    Not so common generally, but has been used (e.g. in
                                                         private equity exits).

Reliance

32      Do financiers seek to rely on buyer’s            Becoming more common (but many law firms
        due diligence reports?                           reluctant to agree).




Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                           270Global M&A Handbook                                                                                        Japan




Set-offs against Claims

33      Is a set-off against claims for tax              Not very common but seen.
        benefits common?

34      Insurance proceeds?                              Common for actually received.

35      Third party recoveries?                          Common for actually received.

Damages, Knowledge

36      Obligation to mitigate damages?                  Civil law system, so not required by law, but
                                                         sometimes express.

37      Exclusion of consequential damages?              Common but often expressed differently as there is
                                                         no defined concept of ‘consequential damages’ in
                                                         Japan.

38      Is it common to include provisions               Often silent.
        that there is no liability if buyer had
        knowledge or buyer’s knowledge no
        effect on warranty/indemnity?

Dispute Resolution

39      Does local law allow for a choice of             Yes, if not contrary to public policy. Japanese law
        governing law? What is the common                often chosen in any event.
        governing law?

40      Is litigation or arbitration more                Litigation is more common. Forum usually Tokyo
        common? If arbitration, where?                   district court.

Stamp Duty

41      If stamp duty is payable, is it normally         Stamp duty not levied on share transfers.
        shared?

3.2      Formalities for Execution of Documents
3.2.1    Transfers of shares
Board approval by the target company’s board of directors may be required where a transfer of shares
is restricted under the target company’s articles of incorporation and the target company has a board
of directors. Such restrictions are fairly common in closely held Japanese companies. If the target
company’s articles of incorporation include a restriction on share transfer and the target company
does not hold a board meeting, then the transfer of shares will require a shareholders’ resolution of
the target company.

The approval of the seller’s board and the buyer’s board will also be required if the sale/purchase of
the target’s shares constitutes the disposition/acquisition of ‘important property’. Further, after the
Amendment, a special resolution of the seller’s shareholders is also required if:

•        the target company is a subsidiary of the seller

•        the seller ceases to hold the majority of shares in the target after the sale, and

•        the book value of the transferred shares in the target constitutes more than one-fifth of the
         total asset value of the seller.




Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                           271Global M&A Handbook                                                                                     Japan



3.2.2    Business transfers
Disposition/acquisition of ‘important property’ vs ‘all or a substantial part’ of a business

Whether or not the sale is of ‘all or a substantial part’ of the seller’s target business, if the transaction
involves the disposition or acquisition of ‘important property,’ board approval is required from the
seller. Whether or not a transaction involves important property will be determined by considering the
price of the assets, the proportion of assets transferring from the target relative to the target’s total
assets, the purpose of the transaction, the terms and conditions of the transaction, and past practice.
Depending on the significance of the acquisition from the buyer’s perspective, board approval may
also be required from the buyer.

In addition, a business transfer involving ‘all or a substantial part’ of a Japanese company’s business
will be subject to a special resolution of the seller’s shareholders. A special resolution is adopted by a
two-thirds majority vote of the shareholders present at a general meeting of shareholders attended by
shareholders holding more than one-half of the total voting rights of shareholders who are eligible to
exercise voting rights at a general meeting of shareholders. If the business transfer involves the
transfer of all of the Japanese company’s business, a special resolution of the buyer’s shareholders
will also be required.

The distinction between the two different types of business transfer is not always clear. In practice,
many buyers tend to proceed cautiously when an asset acquisition is involved. It is common for
buyers to interpret the scope of the business transfer provisions widely and to insist on a special
shareholders’ resolution by the seller’s shareholders (i.e. interpreting the transaction as involving a
transfer of ‘a substantial part’ of the seller’s business) to avoid violating the Companies Act when the
book value of the assets is more than one-fifth of the total assets of the seller.

Asset acquisition by newly incorporated Japanese subsidiary

Foreign investors wishing to acquire Japanese assets via a recently established Japanese subsidiary
should note that if the acquisition occurs less than two years after the subsidiary’s incorporation, it
may be subject to the post-incorporation asset purchase rules of the Companies Act.

The general rule is that if a subsidiary that is less than two years old agrees to acquire property:

•        existing before its incorporation

•        intended to be used on a continuing basis for purposes of the company’s business, and

•        at a price equal to more than one-fifth of the company’s net asset value (this threshold may
         be lowered in the articles of incorporation).

then a shareholders’ resolution is required to approve the asset acquisition in addition to a board
resolution.

3.3      Formalities for Transferring Title to Shares or Assets
3.3.1    Transfers of title to shares
In a share acquisition involving a private company which issues share certificates, transfer of title of
the shares takes place by the delivery of share certificates to the buyer. If the target company does
not issue share certificates (private companies have the option not to issue share certificates under
the Companies Act), transfer of title of shares takes place by agreement between the transferor and
the transferee. The transfer must be registered in the target company’s shareholders’ register in order
for the transferee to be able to assert its rights as a shareholder against the company.

3.3.2    Transfers of title to assets
In an asset sale, it is necessary to separately deal with each category of asset and liability. Contracts
must be individually assigned to the buyer and, where necessary, third-party consents obtained. Much
will depend on the type of asset being acquired and what is required to effect a transfer. The seller will



Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                       272Global M&A Handbook                                                                                            Japan



be obliged to obtain the consent of any employees to be transferred to the buyer. In many cases, the
seller and employees will expect the buyer to provide the same employment conditions that existed
prior to the sale.

3.4      Formalities for Mergers
A merger requires the approval of the board of directors and shareholders of both the acquirer and
the target.

However, if:

•        the total value of the total number of shares issued by the acquiring company upon the
         merger, multiplied by the net asset value per share of the acquiring company and the total
         book value of bonds or any other assets 4 issued by the acquiring company upon the merger
         does not exceed one-fifth 5 of the net asset value of the acquiring company, and

•        there is no objection by any shareholder(s) of the acquiring company holding more than one-
         sixth of the total voting shares in the acquiring company 6.

then the approval of the acquiring company’s shareholders is not required (known as a ‘simplified
merger’ (kan i gappei)).

That said, even if the above conditions are met, the approval of the acquiring company’s shareholders
will be required if:

•        the acquiring company has assumed a net loss as a result of the merger, or

•        the acquiring company’s articles of incorporation include a restriction on share transfer and
         shares are issued by such company upon the merger 7.

If a party owns 90% or more of the shares in the party to be the surviving party of the merger
(described as a ‘special controlling relationship’), the approval of the surviving party’s shareholders
will not be required (known as a ‘short-form merger’ (ryaku shiki gappei)) unless the surviving
company issues shares upon the merger and any of such shares are subject to share transfer
restrictions pursuant to the articles of incorporation of the surviving company. Also, if a party owns
90% or more of the shares in the disappearing party, the approval of the disappearing company’s
shareholders will not be required.

Both the acquirer and the target must publish public notices regarding the merger to allow creditors
the opportunity to object to the proposed merger.

3.5      Formalities for Company Splits
A company split (assuming it is an absorption-type company split in the context of private M&A)
requires the approval of the board of directors and shareholders of both the seller and the buyer.

However, if the book value of the split assets is not more one-fifth of the total assets of the seller, then
the approval of the seller’s shareholders is not required (known as a ‘simplified company split’ (kan i
kaisha bunkatsu) of the seller).

On the other hand, if:

•        the sum of the total number of shares issued by the buyer upon the company split, multiplied
         by the net asset value per share of the buyer and the total book value of bonds or any other


4
  This includes cash.
5
  The 1/5 threshold may be lowered by the articles of incorporation of the acquiring company.
6
  The 1/6 threshold may be varied by the articles of incorporation of the acquiring company.
7
  The Companies Act requires the approval of the acquiring company’s shareholders for share issuances if such
company’s articles of incorporation restrict the transfer of shares. Note that this applies throughout this chapter.



Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                              273Global M&A Handbook                                                                                     Japan



         assets 8 issued by the buyer upon the company split does not exceed one-fifth 9 of the net
         asset value of the buyer, and

•        there is no objection by any shareholder of the buyer holding more than one-sixth of the total
         voting shares in the buyer 10.

then the approval of the buyer’s shareholders is not required (known as a simplified company split of
the buyer).

Nonetheless, even if these conditions are met, the approval of the buyer’s shareholders will be
required if:

•        the buyer assumes a net loss after the company split, or

•        the buyer’s articles of incorporation include a restriction on share transfer and shares are
         issued by such company upon the company split.

If a party owns 90% or more of the shares in the other party (‘special controlling relationship’),
approval of the controlled company’s shareholders will not be required unless the controlled company,
being the buyer, issues shares upon the company split and its articles of incorporation restrict the
transfer of shares.

The buyer must publish a public notice regarding the company split to allow its creditors the
opportunity to object to the proposed company split. The seller must also publish a public notice
regarding the company split except where the seller will be held jointly and severally liable for the
liabilities transferred to the buyer.

4.       Regulatory Framework
4.1      Competition Law Considerations
The Anti-Monopoly Act prohibits mergers and acquisitions if they will substantially restrain competition
in any particular market, or if the merger or acquisition involves unfair trade practices. To give this
prohibition teeth, the Anti-Monopoly Act imposes certain reporting and approval requirements in
relation to certain M&A transactions.

Broadly speaking, transactions involving share acquisitions, business transfers, asset acquisitions,
mergers and company splits that meet thresholds set out in the Anti-Monopoly Act are subject to prior
notification to the Fair Trade Commission (FTC).

4.2      Merger Control Overview
The following is a brief overview of the merger control position (including thresholds and timetables for
clearance) in a typical Japanese purchase agreement, the latter taken from Baker & McKenzie’s
Global Merger Analysis Platform (GMAP). GMAP answers 90 detailed questions on merger control
law in 120 jurisdictions across the globe (see Appendix C for further details).

Filing Obligation

1       Is a filing obligation voluntary or              Mandatory.
        mandatory (i.e. are there penalties for
        failure to notify or for implementing a
        transaction without notification or
        approval)?




8
  This includes cash.
9
  The 1/5 threshold may be lowered by the articles of incorporation of the acquiring company.
10
   The 1/6 threshold may be varied by the articles of incorporation of the acquiring company.



Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                      274Global M&A Handbook                                                                                          Japan




Timetable

2         In practice, what is the timetable for         The FTC is prepared to clear a transaction within
          clearance (in Phase I and Phase II             Phase I (i.e. 30 calendar days) if the transaction does
          review)?                                       not raise competition issues and in particular where
                                                         the parties have engaged in an extensive pre-
                                                         notification process. If, however, the transaction gives
                                                         rise to serious competition issues, it can be difficult to
                                                         predict the exact timetable, but previous cases have
                                                         taken between 6 and 7 months from filing date to
                                                         achieve clearance.

4.2.1      FTC review
The FTC may review a direct or indirect acquisition of a Japanese company or business, and has
power to order the parties to a transaction deemed as substantially restraining competition in a
particular market to take a range of remedial steps to restore competition, including the divestiture or
transfer of a business.

FTC guidance 11 outlines the circumstances in which a proposed merger or acquisition may or may not
be regarded as substantially restraining competition in a particular market. This refers to the
‘Herfindahl-Herschmann Index’ (HHI) which is calculated as the sum of the squared market share of
each company in a particular market. If the business combination only involves two parties, the HHI
increment can be calculated by doubling the sum of the squared market share of each company
group.

The guidelines specifically state that a share acquisition, asset acquisition (including a business
transfer) or merger is unlikely to be deemed to have an anti-competitive effect where the following
occurs in the HHI after the business combination:

           HHI after business combination                                       HHI increment

<1,500                                                        not relevant

>1,500 but <2,500                                             <250

>2,500                                                        <150

Amendments to the guideline which came into force in July 2011 abolished the system of prior
informal consultation under which the FTC granted informal clearance to difficult transactions before
the parties formally filed a notification.

Under the amended guidelines, the FTC reviews proposed business combinations within the
framework of the formal notification system under the Anti-Monopoly Act and no longer grants
informal clearance in response to a voluntary consultation prior to a filing.

4.2.2      Restrictions on financial institutions
The Anti-Monopoly Act prohibits banks from owning more than 5%, and insurance companies from
acquiring more than 10%, of the issued voting shares in any Japanese company. The prohibition
applies whether the acquirer bank or insurance company is incorporated in Japan or overseas.
However, this prohibition does not apply where prior permission is obtained from the FTC or where
the acquisition falls within the scope of certain exemptions (e.g. under the exercise of security rights)
provided under the Anti-Monopoly Act.




11
     Guidelines on the Application of the Anti-Monopoly Act to Reviewing Business Combinations.



Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                            275Global M&A Handbook                                                                                      Japan



4.2.3    Reporting and approval requirements under the Anti-Monopoly Act
Under the Anti-Monopoly Act, a prior notification must be filed with the FTC in relation to mergers,
asset acquisitions, share acquisitions and certain company splits which meet certain thresholds set
out in the Act.

The parties to a transaction that requires a prior notification filing are prohibited from effecting the
transaction for a period of 30 days after the filing. However, the FTC can shorten the waiting period.
The FTC also has power to ask the parties to submit additional information regarding the transaction.

If the FTC does ask for additional information during the 30-day waiting period, it may still take action
in relation to the transaction even after the 30-day waiting period (and until either 120 days from the
date of acceptance of the initial notification, or 90 days from the date of acceptance of the additional
information, whichever is later).

Share acquisitions

The acquiring company must file prior notification with the FTC no later than 30 days before
completion of the share acquisition, where:

•        the total amount of domestic sales 12 of the acquiring company (whether a domestic or foreign
         company) and the other companies in the combined group of companies 13 exceeds JPY20
         billion

•        the total amount of domestic sales of the target company and its subsidiaries exceeds JPY5
         billion, and

•        as a result of the acquisition, the aggregate percentage of the total voting shares in the target
         company held by the acquiring company and the other companies in the combined group of
         companies exceeds 20% or 50%.

An acquisition of shares on the incorporation of a wholly-owned subsidiary is not subject to this
reporting requirement.

Business and asset acquisitions

The acquiring company must file prior notification with the FTC at least 30 days before completion of
the acquisition where:

•        the total amount of domestic sales of the acquiring company (whether domestic or foreign)
         and the other companies in the combined group of companies exceeds JPY20 billion

•        if the acquisition involves the company’s entire business, the company’s total amount of
         domestic sales exceeds JPY3 billion, and

•        if the acquisition involves a material part of the company’s business or all or a material part of
         the fixed assets used in the company’s business, the total amount of domestic sales related
         to the target business or fixed assets exceeds JPY3 billion.




12
   The phrase ‘total amount of domestic sales’ means the sum of the domestic sales of all of the companies that
belong to the combined group of companies.
13
   The phrase ‘combined group of companies’ means a group that consists of a company and its subsidiaries and
the ultimate parent company of the company, if any, and the subsidiaries of the ultimate parent company
(excluding that company and its subsidiaries).



Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                        276Global M&A Handbook                                                                                    Japan



Mergers

Both parties to a merger must file a prior notification with the FTC at least 30 days before the
completion of the merger where:

•        the total amount of the domestic sales of the combined group of companies to which one
         company belongs exceeds JPY20 billion, and

•        the total amount of domestic sales of the combined group of companies to which the other
         company belongs exceeds JPY5 billion.

A merger between a parent company and a subsidiary or between two or more subsidiaries of the
same parent is not subject to this prior notification requirement.

Company splits

In company splits involving multiple transferors, all parties (i.e. including the transferee entity), must
file a prior notification with the FTC at least 30 days before the completion of the company splits
where certain thresholds are met.

Timetable

The FTC is prepared to clear transactions within Phase I (i.e. 30 calendar days) as long as they do
not raise competition concerns and in particular where the parties have engaged in an extensive pre-
notification process. However in cases where the FTC requests the submission by the parties of any
reports, information or materials during the period, the deadline for the FTC’s action may be extended
up to either 120 calendar days from the date of acceptance of the notification, or 90 calendar days
from the date of acceptance of the reports, information or materials that the parties are requested to
submit, whichever is later. If the transaction gives rise to serious competition issues, it can be difficult
to predict the exact timetable, but past cases have taken between 6 to 7 months from the filing date to
achieve clearance.

4.3      Exchange of Competition-Sensitive Information and ‘Gun-Jumping’ Issues
Although the Anti-Monopoly Act does not expressly provide any rules in relation to the exchange of
competition-sensitive information, such information exchange should be restricted in accordance with
the Broad Principles of Information Exchange and ‘Gun-Jumping’ set out at Appendix A when taking
into consideration the general prohibition of unreasonable restraints of trade in Japan. There have,
however, been no cases of enforcement in relation to gun-jumping in Japan.

4.4      Anti-Bribery, Corruption and Money Laundering
4.4.1    Anti-bribery in the public sector
Penal Code (Act No 45 of 1907)

Bribery of Japanese public officials is criminalised under the Penal Code. Specifically, under the
Penal Code, a person who gives, offers, or promises to give a bribe (in the form of any benefit,
including food and drink) to a Public Officer in connection with the official’s duty is guilty of bribery,
unless such offers or promises are considered necessary as a common courtesy. Under Article 198 of
the Penal Code, an offender can be imprisoned for a term of up to three years or be subject to a fine
of up to JPY2.5 million.

Under Article 7 of the Penal Code, a ‘Public Officer’ means, a national or local government official of
Japan, a member of an assembly or committee of Japan, or other employees engaged in the
performance of public duties for the government of Japan in accordance with laws and regulations.

Special laws governing certain publicly funded organisations (e.g. public universities and incorporated
administrative agencies), further expand the application of the anti-bribery provisions of the Penal
Code to directors and employees of such organisations as ‘quasi-public officials’ (minashi koumuin).




Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                     277Global M&A Handbook                                                                                     Japan



Unfair Competition Prevention Act (Act No 47 of 1993; UCPA)

Japan has ratified and implemented the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention - see Appendix D. The
implementing legislation is the UCPA. Article 18(1) of UCPA provides that:

‘No person shall give, or offer or promise to give, any money or other benefits to a Foreign Public
Officer for the purpose of having the Foreign Public Officer act or refrain from acting in a particular
way in relation to his/her duties, or having the Foreign Public Officer use his/her position to influence
another Foreign Public Officer to act or refrain from acting in a particular way in relation to that
officer’s duties, in order to obtain illicit gains in business with regard to international commercial
transactions.’

Violations are punishable by:

•        imprisonment for a term of up to five years, and/or

•        fine of up to JPY5 million.

The term ‘foreign public officer’ is defined in Article 18(2) as a person who engages in:

•        public services for a foreign, state, or local government

•        services for an entity established under a special foreign law to carry out specific affairs in the
         public interest

•        the affairs of an enterprise of which the number of voting shares or the amount of capital
         subscription directly owned by one or more of the foreign, state, or local governments
         exceeds 50 percent of that enterprise’s total issued voting shares or total amount of
         subscribed capital, or of which the number of officers (which means directors, auditors,
         secretaries, and liquidators and other persons engaged in management of the business)
         appointed or designated by one or more of the foreign, state, or local foreign governments
         exceeds half of that enterprise’s total number of officers, and to which special rights and
         interests are granted by the foreign state or local governments for performance of its
         business, or a person specified by a Cabinet Order as an equivalent person

•        public services for an international organisation (which means an international organisation
         constituted by governments or intergovernmental international organisations), or

•        the affairs under the authority of a foreign, state, or local government or an international
         organisation, and which have been delegated by such organisation.

4.4.2    Anti-bribery in the private sector
In certain limited cases such as those involving former government owned monopolies or fiduciary
relationships, special laws specifically governing those entities or relationships, may also subject
private sector individuals to penal sanctions prescribed under those laws for certain acts of bribery.

4.4.3    Money laundering
The Act on Prevention of Transfer of Criminal Proceeds (Act No. 22, 2007) applies to a broad scope
of ‘specified business operators’ including lawyers and accountants, banks and other lending
institutions, and insurance companies, in connection with benefits or money received from drug
related crimes or organised crime. Such entities have duties to perform ‘know-your-client’ checks to
confirm the identity of customers when conducting certain specified dealings.

4.5      Exchange Control, Foreign Investment Restrictions and Trade Regulation
Foreign investment in Japanese companies and businesses is regulated by the FEFTA.




Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                      278Global M&A Handbook                                                                                             Japan



Certain reporting or approval requirements may apply to direct inward investments depending on:

•            the jurisdiction in which the investor is located (i.e. whether it is an approved country or not)

•            the industry in which the target company or business operates (i.e. whether it is a regulated or
             a non-regulated industry), or

•            the nature of the particular asset involved (for asset acquisitions).

4.5.1        Exchange controls
One of the stated aims of the FEFTA is to liberalise foreign exchange and foreign trade − i.e. subject
foreign investment to as little regulation and compliance duties as possible. Capital flows relevant to
mergers and acquisitions in Japan are therefore largely free of government controls.

However, cash remittances of more than JPY30 million into or out of Japan must be reported to the
Minister of Finance (MoF). This reporting obligation is directed at and applicable to residents only. In
practice, however, the Japanese bank involved in such remittance usually prepares and files such
report on behalf of its customer as a service for its customer.

The repatriation of profits and dividends by branches and subsidiary forms is unrestricted in Japan.
Bond issues, whether overseas by Japanese residents or by foreign residents in Japan, do not
require government approval. However, issues involving sums of JPY100 million or more may be
subject to an after-the-fact reporting requirement.

4.5.2        Foreign investment approvals and notifications
Share acquisitions

General case filing obligation

Foreign investors (usually foreign corporations) must file an ‘after-the-fact’ report with the MoF and
other relevant ministers through the Bank of Japan (BoJ) by the 15th day of the month following the
month in which the investor acquires shares in a Japanese company. This filing is generally regarded
as a mere formality and does not require extensive disclosure of information.

However, no after-the-fact report is required if, as a result of the acquisition, the investor and any
related companies do not in the aggregate hold 10% or more of the issued shares in a company.

Exceptional case filing obligation
                                                                                     14
However, foreign investors purchasing any number of shares in a company                   in Japan must file:

•            at any time during the six months prior to the acquisition, a notification, and

•            within 30 days after the acquisition, an execution report, with the MoF and any other relevant
             ministers through the BoJ.

if either:

•            the investor is located in a jurisdiction that is not included in the MoF list of designated
             jurisdictions

•            the target company is engaged in business in a regulated industry, or




14
  For the exceptional case filing obligation, the 10% threshold of aggregate holdings does not apply, except in
case of acquisitions of the shares of a listed company (in which case the Exceptional Case Filing Obligation will
be required only if, as a result of the acquisition, the investor and any related companies in the aggregate hold
10% or more of the issued shares in the listed company).



Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                              279Global M&A Handbook                                                                                  Japan



•        the investor is Iranian and acquires shares in a company which operates a business in which
         Iranian investment is prohibited.

Regulated industries include:

•        telecoms (i.e. including telecoms carriers which must be registered under Art. 9,
         Telecommunications Business Act)

•        electricity

•        agriculture and fisheries

•        marine and air transportation

•        petroleum

•        leather goods

•        aerospace

•        nuclear power, and

•        gunpowder and armaments.

Offshore share acquisitions

Foreign investors who acquire shares in a non-listed company from another foreign investor need not
file a prior notification or after-the-fact report regarding the acquisition.

If the foreign investor disposing of the shares previously filed a prior notification under the FEFTA, that
foreign investor will be required to file an after-the-fact report with the MoF.

Asset acquisitions

If a foreign investor acquires assets directly from a Japanese seller, the acquisition will be subject to
certain reporting requirements under the FEFTA. The reporting requirements differ depending on the
asset involved. For example, non-residents must report acquisitions of real property located within
Japan to the MoF (through the BoJ) within 20 days of an acquisition of real estate. Personal property
is generally exempt from these requirements.

Mergers

The Companies Act does not currently provide for mergers between foreign corporations and
Japanese companies. A foreign investor can only participate in a merger, as the acquiring party,
through a wholly-owned or controlled Japanese subsidiary. If a foreign investor proposes to establish
a new company in Japan with a view to acquiring the assets of a Japanese company through a
merger, the acquisition of shares in the new company will be subject to the reporting requirements
and restrictions that apply under the FEFTA to share acquisitions (see above). However, the
Companies Act does permit some acquisitions of Japanese corporations using shares in foreign
companies (so-called ‘triangular mergers’).

Changes of business purposes

A change of a foreign-held company’s business purposes will also trigger a FEFTA prior notification
requirement if that change relates to a regulated industry. A change not relating to a regulated
industry is not subject to any prior notification or reporting requirement.




Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                   280Global M&A Handbook                                                                                    Japan




4.6      Industry-Specific Regulation
Thresholds have been established with respect to foreign ownership in certain industries. The rules
vary for individual companies within these industries and should be checked at the time an acquisition
is being contemplated. Foreign individuals and companies may still invest in these companies beyond
the set caps. However, they cannot be registered as shareholders and will therefore not enjoy the
usual shareholder rights (e.g. voting rights and dividend rights).

The major industries to which these rules apply include the following.

•        Telecommunications: Foreign investors are permitted to acquire 100% of the shares in all
         Japanese telecoms companies, except for Nippon Telegraph and Telephone East
         Corporation (NTT-East); Nippon Telegraph and Telephone West Corporation (NTT-West);
         and Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation (NTT, being the holding company of NTT-
         East and NTT-West). Less than one-third of all of the voting rights of NTT may be foreign-
         owned, and NTT-East and NTT-West must be owned by NTT

•        Airlines: Foreign investors are permitted to acquire 33.3% of all voting rights in Japanese
         airline companies

•        Broadcasting: Foreign investors are permitted to acquire less than 20% of all voting rights in
         general broadcasting and communications companies and other similar companies. The
         regulations relating to broadcasting such as cable, satellite and similar companies are
         technical; and the restrictions should be confirmed prior to any substantial acquisition in this
         sector.

In certain industries, the relevant regulator may have to be notified and in some instances its consent
or approval sought in relation to an acquisition or merger. For example:

•        Telecommunications: where the whole of a telecoms business is transferred or there is a
         merger or a company split of a telecoms carrier, an after-the-fact notice must be provided
         without delay to the Minister of Internal Affairs and Communications

•        Stock company-type financial instruments exchange: where 5% or more of the voting rights in
         a stock company-type financial instruments exchange is acquired, an after-the-fact notice
         must be made without delay to the Prime Minister through the competent Local Finance
         Bureau. Where the percentage is 20% or more, the approval of the Prime Minister is also
         required

•        Banks: M&A involving banks must be approved by the Commissioner of the Financial
         Services Agency. If more than 5% of the voting rights in a bank are acquired, an after-the-fact
         notice must be made within 5 business days of the acquisition to the competent local finance
         bureau; and for 20% or more of the voting rights, approval of the Commissioner of the
         Financial Services Agency is also necessary.

5.       Transfer Taxes
5.1      Acquisition of Shares
Share purchase agreements are not subject to stamp duty in Japan.




Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                     281Global M&A Handbook                                                                                      Japan




5.2      Acquisition of Assets
Acquisition of assets is subject to the following taxes:

Tax Type                                 Transaction                        Tax Rate

Real property acquisition tax            Acquisitions of buildings          3% (residential buildings) or 4%
                                                                            (other buildings) of the
                                                                            appraisal value based on a
                                                                            fixed assets tax

                                         Acquisitions of land               3% of appraisal value based on
                                                                            a fixed assets tax (or half of the
                                                                            appraisal value based on a
                                                                            fixed assets tax in the case of
                                                                            residential land)

Registration and licence tax             Acquisitions of real property,     2% of appraisal value based on
                                         except land                        a fixed assets tax

                                         Acquisitions of land               1.5% of appraisal value based
                                                                            on a fixed assets tax until 31
                                                                            March 2015 (to be extended to
                                                                            31 March 2017 under 2015 tax
                                                                            legislation proposals)

                                         Transfer of ownership of any       Registration tax of JPY15,000
                                         other registrable assets           per patent and JPY30,000 per
                                         acquired from the transferor,      trademark, etc.
                                         such as registrable intellectual
                                         property

Stamp duty                               Agreements for the acquisition
                                                                            Progressive and are assessed
                                         of business assets, including
                                                                            on amount of purchase price
                                         real property, intellectual
                                                                            stated in the agreement.
                                         property rights, etc., that are
                                         prepared and executed in
                                                                            Maximum amount of stamp duty
                                         Japan.
                                                                            payable is JPY600,000 on an
                                                                            agreement involving a purchase
                                                                            price of more than JPY5 billion.

5.3      Mergers and Splits
Mergers and company splits are subject to the following taxes:

                                                       Mergers

Tax Type                                 Transaction                        Tax Rate

Stamp duty                               Merger agreement                   Flat rate of JPY40,000 per
                                                                            original agreement

Registration and licence tax             Acquisitions of real property      0.4% of appraisal value based
                                                                            on a fixed assets tax

                                         Transfer of statutory              Registration tax of JPY3,000
                                         intangibles, such as patent        per patent and JPY3,000 per
                                         registrations and trade marks      trade mark, etc.




Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                       282Global M&A Handbook                                                                                    Japan




                                                  Company Splits

Tax Type                                 Transaction                      Tax Rate

Stamp duty                               Company split agreement/ plan    Flat rate of JPY40,000 per
                                                                          original agreement

Real property acquisition tax            Acquisitions of buildings        3% (residential buildings) or 4%
                                                                          (other buildings) of appraisal
                                                                          value based on a fixed assets
                                                                          tax

                                         Acquisitions of land             3% of appraisal value based on
                                                                          a fixed assets tax (or half of the
                                                                          appraisal value based on a
                                                                          fixed assets tax in the case of
                                                                          residential land). If certain
                                                                          conditions are met, the
                                                                          company split is not subject to
                                                                          real estate acquisition tax.

Registration and licence tax             Acquisitions of real property,   2% of appraisal value based on
                                         except land                      a fixed assets tax

                                         Acquisitions of land             1.8% until 31 March 2015; 2%
                                                                          of appraisal value based on a
                                                                          fixed asset tax (on or after
                                                                          1 April 2015)

                                         Transfer of statutory            Registration tax of JPY15,000
                                         intangibles, such as patent      per patent and JPY30,000 per
                                         registrations and trade marks    trademark, etc.

5.4      Value Added Tax
Consumption tax (similar to VAT) will be imposed at a rate of 8% on the transfer of taxable assets
(e.g. inventory and fixed assets, both tangible and intangible). The rate will rise to 10% from 1 April
2017. Acquisitions of shares, mergers and splits are not subject to Japanese consumption tax.

6.       Employee Issues
6.1      Method of Transfer under Local Law
6.1.1    Acquisition of shares
An acquisition of the shares in a corporate employer will not affect its obligations to its employees
because the employing entity will remain the same. In practice, however, the buyer may need to
change the working conditions of the employees if the target is moved from one company group to
another and the buyer wishes to integrate the target’s working conditions with the working conditions
of the other group companies.

To change working conditions that have been individually agreed with each employee, the consent of
each employee will generally be required. If those working conditions are provided for under the work
rules or their ancillary rules, such terms can be changed for the workplace by following the procedures
set by the Labour Standards Act. However, even if those procedures are followed, certain changes
may still be challenged on an individual basis by employees who are detrimentally affected by the
change. Any detrimental change in the working conditions provided under the work rules will be valid
only when:




Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                      283Global M&A Handbook                                                                                  Japan



•        the employees consent to the change (detrimental changes will not be effective against non-
         consenting employees), or

•        the change is reasonable considering the circumstances as a whole taking into account
         various factors including economic factors or business needs (Arts 9 and 10, Labour Contract
         Act and relevant case precedents).

6.1.2    Acquisition of assets/businesses
When a business is sold, the seller must obtain the consent of any employee that the buyer proposes
to employ (Civil Code). Any employee whom the buyer proposes not to employ will remain an
employee of the seller. If the seller finds it necessary to dismiss any employees who choose to remain
with it, such dismissal must meet both procedural and substantive requirements, failing which the
dismissal may be invalidated. (See 6.4 for the substantive requirements.)

A transfer of an employee to the buyer can be effected by either:

•        a resignation by the employee from the seller and re-hire by the buyer, or

•        a transfer of the employment contract from the seller to the buyer.

In general, the resignation and re-hire process is used more frequently where the employees are
transferred to a company outside the seller’s current group of companies; whereas the transfer of
contract process is more frequently used where the employees are transferred within group
companies.

Both methods require the consent and co-operation of the transferring employees. The action plan for
either method should include a comparison of the original working conditions of the employees with
those which the buyer is in a position to offer – this will necessarily require the cooperation of both the
buyer and the seller. The goal of this exercise is to identify the potential impact of the transfer on each
employee and the appropriate measures to be taken to address those impacts and develop an
approach for the consent process. To obtain consent from all of the target employees as smoothly as
possible, it is recommended that the new working conditions offered to the employees are no less
favourable than their existing conditions.

Termination and re-hire

If an employee resigns from the seller and then is re-hired by the acquirer/employer, that transferring
employee is entitled to be paid retirement benefits accrued with the seller, upon the transfer.
However, employees can choose to have accrued retirement benefits and other entitlements (e.g.
pension benefits) transferred to the buyer rather than have them paid out on the transfer (and usually
prefer this latter course). The feasibility and procedures for the transfer of such accrued entitlements
should be carefully assessed at an early stage. Such practical issues may include portability of the
accrued benefits as well any requirements/consents of third party benefit providers that might apply.
See 6.3.

Transfer of employment contract

Employment contracts will transfer from the seller to the buyer. As a general rule, the conditions of
employment of the employee remain unchanged after the transfer, and accrued retirement benefits
and other entitlements will also be transferred to the buyer. In practice, however, this may result in the
transferred employees and existing employees having different working conditions, which would not
be viable for the buyer-employer. It may not even be possible to maintain the same benefit schemes
for the transferred employees after the transfer due to limitations faced by the buyer. For example,
where the buyer acquires the business through a newly established special purpose vehicle, such
entity may not be able to meet a third-party benefit provider’s requirements for corporate enrolment
(e.g. number of years since incorporation). Replicating the same benefits can also be difficult where
the buyer’s benefit programs are so structurally different from those provided by the seller to its
employees that the costs and effort required to do so may be prohibitive. See 6.3.




Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                    284Global M&A Handbook                                                                                 Japan



The conditions of employment of the incoming/transferred employees may therefore need to be
adjusted after the transfer, which requires very careful handling, and must follow the set procedures
for changing working conditions as discussed in 6.1.1. In practice, the consent to such changes in
conditions of employment should be obtained from each employee at the same time as they consent
to the business transfer.

6.1.3    Mergers and splits
Mergers

In a merger situation, the employees of the target company become employees of the merged entity
as of the merger date by operation of law. There is no requirement for either the acquirer or target to
obtain the consent of their respective employees to the merger itself.

However, where there are differences in the employment conditions of the acquirer and the target
company, harmonisation of the working conditions may become necessary. Working conditions may
also need to be adjusted after the merger if the same benefit schemes cannot be maintained (see
6.1.2). The procedures for changing the working conditions as set out in 6.1.1 must be followed in
these circumstances.

Company splits

Under the company split process, as a general rule, all assets, liabilities and contracts are transferred
with the transferring business by operation of law. The employment contracts, as with other types of
contracts, will automatically transfer from the splitting company to the succeeding company, without
the need to obtain the consent of each employee, under the same terms and conditions. In order to
protect employees in a company split scenario, the Act on the Succession to Labour Contracts upon
Company Splits (ASLCCS) sets out certain requirements concerning consultations, notices and
objection rights as described below.

To transfer employees in a company split, the splitting company must complete two types of
consultation process:

•        consultation with the labour union/employee representative (under Art. 7, ASLCCS), and

•        consultation with the employees engaged in the transferring business (under Art. 5,
         Supplementary Provisions of Act Revising a Portion of the Commercial Code etc.).

The Supreme Court has held that failure to consult with the target employees may invalidate the
transfer of the employees in a company split if:

•        no consultation takes place at all, or

•        the seller’s consultations or communications are insufficient and clearly do not satisfy the
         underlying purpose behind the consultation requirement.

Once the consultations are undertaken in accordance with the correct procedure and completed, the
splitting company must send notice to:

•        employees primarily engaged in the business to be succeeded to by the succeeding company
         (core employees), and

•        the employees covered under the split agreement/plan as those who will be succeeded to by
         the succeeding company (transferring employees).

Further, the splitting company must send notice to the labour unions with which it has concluded
collective bargaining agreement(s), if there are any.




Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                    285Global M&A Handbook                                                                                Japan



The notice requirement is framed in these two distinct ways because it is not only the Transferring
Employees who have a right to notice. That is, all Core Employees are also entitled to notice even if
some may not be among the Transferring Employees agreed between the buyer and the seller. This
is significant for the purposes of the objection rights discussed below.

After receipt of the above notices, the following groups of employees have a right to object either to
being transferred, or not being transferred.

•        Non-Core Employees who are included among the Transferring Employees can object to
         being transferred, and

•        Core Employees who have not been included among the Transferring Employees and are not
         being transferred can object to not being transferred.

These employees must exercise this right of objection during the period from the date of the notice
until one day before the date of the shareholder’s resolution relating to the corporate split.

6.2      Approval or Consultation Requirements
Where a target company’s employees are unionised and a collective bargaining agreement has been
concluded between the union and the seller, those agreements might require the seller to:

•        notify the union

•        engage in advance consultations with the union, and/or

•        obtain the union’s consent to the proposed acquisition.

Even where no collective bargaining agreement exists or one exists but does not require such
notification, consultation and consent, it is probably advisable to properly communicate with the
unions. The individual consent of each employee must be obtained in certain circumstances, so from
a practical perspective, having the unions on-side can facilitate matters.

Sufficient time for such union consultations should be factored in.

6.3      Transfer of Benefit Schemes
Because various types of benefit can be offered, and employees will receive different packages from
company-to-company, it may not always be possible to directly transfer a benefit scheme in any kind
of company re-organisation. Parties should therefore ascertain the feasibility of, and processes
required for the transfer of each and every benefit scheme made to employees of the seller at an
early stage.

For example, take a scenario involving the transfer of pensions. Pension schemes (or retirement
benefit plans) vary from company to company and their transfer might need the approval/involvement
of the lead trust bank and/or government.

Another example would be health insurance. Some companies enrol in a health insurance association
(HIA) scheme. HIA is a private association authorised by the government to provide health insurance
in the place of government health insurance. In general, HIA policies usually offer better benefits to
employees (health coverage) than government health insurance. Parties should be aware of the fact
that transfer of such schemes needs government authorisation.

6.4      Protection against Dismissal
Dismissal of an employee will be invalid if it is found to have been conducted in a manner which is an
‘abuse of the employer’s right of dismissal’. A dismissal will be considered an ‘abuse’ and therefore
null and void if it is not based on objectively reasonable grounds or is ‘not considered to be
appropriate in general societal terms’. The courts determine whether these standards are met based
on the circumstances of each case.




Law stated as of 1 March 2015 © Baker & McKenzie all rights reserved                                     286